Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 26 (Monday, June 29, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 26 (Monday, June 29, 1998)]
[Page 1214]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders on the Proposed ``Hate Crimes Prevention 
Act of 1998''

June 24, 1998

Dear __________:

    I am writing to urge the Senate (House) to act quickly this year to 
pass the Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 1998. This crucial legislation 
would expand the ability of the Justice Department to prosecute hate 
crimes by removing needless jurisdictional requirements for existing 
crimes and by giving Federal prosecutors the power to prosecute hate 
crimes committed because of the victim's sexual orientation, gender, or 
disability.
    As you know, there have been a number of recent tragedies across our 
country that involve hate crimes. I know you were as troubled as I was 
by the vicious murder in Jasper, Texas, just two weeks ago. This 
shocking event focused America's attention on the problem of hate 
crimes. I hope we can join together to reaffirm that no American should 
be subjected to violence on account of his or her race, color, national 
origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender, or disability.
    Whether it is a gay American murdered as he walks home from work or 
a Jewish American whose synagogue is desecrated by swastikas, such acts 
are not only examples of bias and bigotry--they are crimes. They strike 
at the heart of what it means to be an American and at the values that 
define us as a Nation. That is why I believe now is the time for us to 
take strong and decisive action to fight hate crimes.
    There is nothing more important to the future of this country than 
our standing together against intolerance, prejudice, and violent 
bigotry. The Hate Crimes Prevention Act will lead the way in making all 
Americans more safe and secure. I implore you to move this vital piece 
of legislation through the Senate (House) without delay.
    Sincerely,
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: Identical letters were sent to Newt Gingrich, Speaker of the House 
of Representatives; Trent Lott, Senate majority leader; Thomas A. 
Daschle, Senate minority leader; and Richard A. Gephardt, House minority 
leader. An original was not available for verification of the contents 
of this letter.