Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 46 (Monday, November 16, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 46 (Monday, November 16, 1998)]
[Pages 2311-2312]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the National Parks Omnibus Management Act of 1998

November 13, 1998

    Today I am pleased to sign into law S. 1693, the ``National Parks 
Omnibus Management Act of 1998.''
    The Act, which passed with bipartisan support in both Houses of 
Congress, is a major

[[Page 2312]]

victory for all Americans who treasure and want to preserve the cultural 
and natural resources our parks have to offer. The Act contains a number 
of measures to assist National Park Service operations. This legislation 
is the first major overhaul of the way that the National Park Service 
awards concessions contracts in more than 3 decades. It ensures that all 
major contracts will be awarded through competitive bidding and makes 
concessions franchise fees available directly to the Park Service to 
improve the parks. These changes will result in better service to 
visitors and a better return to the taxpayers.
    The Act requires the development of a training program that will 
allow Park Service employees the opportunity to gain the skills and 
experience they will need to protect parks. It also allows the Secretary 
of the Interior to lease park buildings consistent with other park 
legislation, and it lays out a clear process for the Park Service to 
recommend areas to be studied for possible inclusion into the National 
Park System.
    Finally, the Act establishes a park ``passport,'' which includes a 
collectible stamp that provides an innovative way for the public to 
directly support parks. My Administration will work to minimize any 
confusion that may result between the introduction of this new parks-
only passport and the continued use of the Golden Eagle Passport, which 
provides access to all public lands.
    I commend retiring Senator Dale Bumpers, Senator Craig Thomas, and 
Representatives Don Young and George Miller for their outstanding work 
in forging a consensus to bring about the passage of S. 1693.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
November 13, 1998.

Note: At time of publication, S. 1693, approved November 13, had not yet 
been received by the Office of the Federal Register for assignment of a 
Public Law number. An original was not available for verification of the 
content of this statement.