Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 39 (Monday, September 28, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 39 (Monday, September 28, 1998)]
[Pages 1861-1862]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Common Agenda: Illustration of the New U.S.-Japan Cooperation

September 22, 1998

    Five years after the creation of the U.S.-Japan Common Agenda for 
Cooperation in Global Perspective, President Clinton and Prime Minister 
Obuchi recognized the valuable work accomplished by dedicated Japanese 
and American scientists, researchers and aid workers to fight diseases, 
preserve natural resources and exchange scientific data on various 
natural disasters and global climate change.
    The participation of U.S. and Japanese private citizens, foundations 
and other nongovernmental organizations in projects of the Common Agenda 
will enhance the impacts of these projects. Their participation is also 
expected to generate grass-roots public support. On September 23, 1998, 
U.S. and Japanese representatives of private-sector organizations (in 
Japan, the Common Agenda Roundtable) that support the Common Agenda will 
meet in Honolulu to discuss how they can assist in promoting the 
objectives of the Common Agenda.
    The President and the Prime Minister welcome the first meeting of 
private sector representatives and made special mention of three 
projects:
    1) The United States and Japan will work with the Government of 
Panama and nongovernmental partners to preserve the Panama Canal 
watershed by developing a program to focus on environmental education 
and the training of local nongovernmental organizations.
    2) In light of the recent forest fires which affected Southeast 
Asia, The United States and Japan will support efforts to address the 
underlying causes of the fires and assist local

[[Page 1862]]

governments to promote sustainable agriculture, forestry and land use.
    3) The United States and Japan have been playing key roles in the 
success of efforts to eradicate polio worldwide. However, significant 
challenges remain. The two countries will strengthen their commitment to 
end the scourge of this disease through, among other steps, expanding 
cooperative eradication efforts by U.S. Peace Corps Volunteers and the 
Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers especially in African countries, 
keeping in mind the importance of U.S.-Japan collaboration through 
TICADII (The Second Tokyo International Conference of African 
Development) to be held in October in Tokyo.

Note: An original was not available for verification of the content of 
this joint statement.