Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 36 (Monday, September 7, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 36 (Monday, September 7, 1998)]
[Pages 1700-1701]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum of Understanding Between the United States of America and 
Russian Federation on the Principles of Cooperation in the Fields of 
Culture, the Humanities, the Social Sciences, Education, and the Mass 
Media

September 2, 1998

    The Government of the United States of America and the Government of 
the Russian Federation (hereinafter referred to as ``the 
Participants'');
    Desiring  to enhance mutual understanding and strengthen the 
friendly relations between the peoples of the United States of America 
and the Russian Federation;
    Believing that further development of cooperation on the basis of 
equality and mutual benefit will facilitate attainment of these 
objectives;
    Reaffirming the enduring validity of the principle of compliance 
with the international norms governing rights to intellectual property;
    Guided By the provisions of the Charter for American-Russian 
Partnership and Friendship signed at Washington on June 17, 1992; and
    Declaring their intent to encourage direct ties between the citizens 
and appropriate institutions of the United States of America and the 
Russian Federation, as well as between the U.S. and Russian non-
governmental institutions, in the fields of culture the humanities, the 
social sciences, education, and the mass media;
    Have reached mutual understanding that:
    1. The Participants intend to promote the strengthening of mutual 
cooperation in the fields of culture, the humanities, the social 
sciences, education, archival science, and the mass media.
    2. The Participants intend to encourage the development of cultural 
exchanges in order to promote better understanding of each other's 
culture, particularly through:
<bullet>    organization of theatrical performances and art exhibitions;

[[Page 1701]]

<bullet>    dissemination of instructional materials, books, 
            periodicals, scholarly publications, radio and television 
            progams, films, and other audiovisual materials;
<bullet>    organization of lectures, seminars, and joint scholarly 
            research; and
<bullet>    participation in other activities in the fields of culture 
            and art carried out in the United States of America and the 
            Russian Federation.
    3. The Paticipants intend to facilitate the establishment of 
contacts between interested governmental and non-governmental 
organizations in order to develop programs and joint projects in fields 
of mutual interest that help strengthen bilateral ties.
    4. The Participants plan to encourage scholarly research in the 
fields of culture, the humanities, and education conducted by 
appropriate academic institutions in the two countries.
    5. The Participants intend to provide assistance in the study of the 
Russian and English languages in the United States of America and the 
Russian Federation, respectively.
    6. The Participants intend to facilitate the reciprocal sending of 
pupils, undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and scholars for 
instruction and scholarly research, as well as high school teachers to 
work as interns and give lectures.
    7. The Participants intend to encourage the development of contacts 
between libraries and archives in order to provide wider access to the 
information available in them.
    8. The Participants intend to facilitate exchanges and contacts 
between journalists, publishers, and mass media associations.
    9. The Participants intend to encourage contacts and cooperation 
between youth, women's, and other non-governmental organizations in the 
two countries.
    10. The activities set forth in this Memorandum may be carried out 
in the form of joint projects or individual programs of appropriate 
governmental or non-governmental organizations in the United States of 
America and the Russian Federation.
    11. The Participants plan for their representatives to meet as 
necessary or at the request of either Participant to exchange views and 
also to formulate recommendations on specific aspects of the development 
of cultural cooperation. Matters relating to this will be coordinated 
through diplomatic channels.
    12. In matters pertaining to cooperation in the fields of culture, 
the humanities, the social sciences, education, and the mass media, the 
Participants intend to be guided by this Memorandum in accordance with 
the laws and regulations of the United States of America and the Russian 
Federation and in accordance with the principles and norms of 
international law, beginning on the date of its signature and until such 
time as either Participant informs the other in writing to the contrary.
    The provisions of this Memorandum do not affect other active 
projects or programs.
    Signed at Moscow, this second day of September, 1998, in duplicate, 
each in the English and Russian languages.

                                                                        
 For the Government of the  United States     For the Government of the 
                of America:                      Russian Federation:    
                                                                        
            William J. Clinton                      Boris Yeltsin       
                                                                        

Note: An original was not available for verification of the content of 
this memorandum.