Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 45 (Monday, November 9, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 45 (Monday, November 9, 1998)]
[Pages 2203-2204]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998

October 30, 1998

    Today I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 4309, the ``Torture Victims 
Relief Act of 1998.'' This Act authorizes continued and expanded U.S. 
contributions to treatment centers, both in the United States and around 
the world, for persons who suffer from the mental and physical anguish 
of having been tortured.
    The United States has contributed to these centers for many years--
directly to domestic centers through the Department of Health and Human 
Services and to overseas centers through the Agency for International 
Development, and indirectly, through Department of State contributions 
to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for the Victims of Torture. 
Contributions of this nature are a concrete and practical step that the 
U.S. Government takes to mitigate the effects of this serious, and far 
too pervasive, human rights violation.
    I want to stress, however, that assisting torture victims does not 
end the curse of torture. The United States will continue its efforts to 
shine a spotlight on this horrible practice wherever it occurs, and we 
will do all we can to bring it to an end.
    I want to take this opportunity to thank all those who have 
contributed to the successful passage of this legislation. I also salute 
those nongovernmental organizations active in the cause of human rights, 
who encouraged congressional passage of this Act and who work tirelessly 
to keep alive the spirit of human rights, in our hearts and in our 
domestic and foreign policy.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
October 30, 1998.

Note: H.R. 4309, approved October 30, was assigned Public Law No. 105-
320. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.

[[Page 2204]]