Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 25 (Monday, June 22, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 25 (Monday, June 22, 1998)]
[Page 1157]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Estonia-United States Legal 
Assistance Treaty With Documentation

June 19, 1998

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Treaty Between the Government of 
the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of 
Estonia on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed at 
Washington on April 2, 1998. I transmit also, for the information of the 
Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to the 
Treaty.
    The Treaty is one of a series of modern mutual legal assistance 
treaties being negotiated by the United States in order to counter 
criminal activity more effectively. The Treaty should be an effective 
tool to assist in the prosecution of a wide variety of crimes, including 
``white-collar'' crime and drug-trafficking offenses. The Treaty is 
self-executing.
    The Treaty provides for a broad range of cooperation in criminal 
matters. Mutual assistance available under the Treaty includes: taking 
the testimony or statements of persons; providing documents, records, 
and articles of evidence; locating or identifying persons or items; 
serving documents; transferring persons in custody for testimony or 
other purposes; executing requests for searches and seizures; assisting 
in proceedings related to immobilization and forfeiture of assets, 
restitution, and collection of fines; and rendering any other form of 
assistance not prohibited by the laws of the Requested State.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to the Treaty and give its advice and consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
June 19, 1998.