Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 4 (Monday, January 26, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 4 (Monday, January 26, 1998)]
[Pages 124-125]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Videotaped Remarks on the 25th Anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe v. 
Wade Decision

January 22, 1998

    On January 22d, we marked the 25th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the 
landmark Supreme Court decision that affirmed every woman's right to 
choose whether and when to have a child, and in doing so, affirmed two 
of our Nation's most deeply-held values, personal privacy and family 
responsibility.
    Over the past 25 years, Roe v. Wade has had a major positive impact 
on the health and well-being of American women and their families. Safe, 
legal abortion has all but eliminated the dangerous, clandestine 
conditions that claimed too many women's lives when the procedure was 
illegal.
    I'm committed to keeping abortion safe, legal, and accessible--and 
to making it more rare. Over the last 5 years, we've led the way on 
policies to prevent unintended pregnancy by making comprehensive family 
planning and sex education programs more widely available. We've 
increased support for Title X family planning services every year in our 
budget. And I'll do so again this year.
    I fought to continue funding for international family planning, 
bringing much needed health care to women all around the world. Here at 
home, by working together with health care professionals, community 
groups, schools, and family planning agencies, we've made real progress 
in reducing teen pregnancy. And I was proud to sign legislation to 
protect the rights Roe established by protecting women's clinics from 
violence. We have enforced that law to its full extent.
    I will continue to do everything I can to make sure that every child 
in America is a wanted child, raised in a loving, strong family. 
Ultimately, that idea is what the anniversary of Roe v. Wade celebrates.

[[Page 125]]

    Hillary and I join with all of you in commemorating this milestone 
and pledge ourselves anew to protecting the right to choose.
    Thank you, and God bless you.

Note: The President recorded these remarks on January 6 in the Cabinet 
Room at the White House.