Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 46 (Monday, November 16, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 46 (Monday, November 16, 1998)]
[Pages 2310-2311]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Centennial of Flight Commemoration Act

November 13, 1998

    Today I have signed into law S. 1397, the ``Centennial of Flight 
Commemoration Act.''
    On December 17, 1903, Orville and Wilbur Wright completed the first 
successful manned flight of a heavier-than-air machine. This historic 
moment marked the first step in a long journey through the skies that 
would ultimately take Americans beyond Earth's atmosphere and into 
space. This Act establishes a commission to coordinate the commemoration 
of this achievement, the benefits of which we are continuing to reap.
    I am advised by the Department of Justice that section 9 of S. 1397, 
which authorizes the commission to devise a logo and regulate and 
license its use, is inconsistent with the Appointments Clause of the 
Constitution and that, accordingly, these functions may not be

[[Page 2311]]

performed by the commission as it is currently organized. Similarly, 
although section 5(a)(3) directs the commission to ``plan and develop'' 
its own commemorative activities, the commission may not itself 
implement such activities because of Appointments Clause concerns. 
Finally, I also understand that the statute poses potential conflicts of 
interest problems. In contracting and in selecting an executive staff 
director and staff members (who will be considered Federal employees), 
the commission will need to take appropriate actions to avoid such 
conflicts. My Administration will work closely with the Congress to 
address these issues in future legislation.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
November 13, 1998.

Note: At time of publication, S. 1397, approved November 13, had not yet 
been received by the Office of the Federal Register for assignment of a 
Public Law number. An original was not available for verification of the 
content of this statement.