Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34 Issue 26 (Monday, June 29, 1998)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 34, Number 26 (Monday, June 29, 1998)]
[Page 1200]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Niue-United States Treaty on the 
Delimitation of a Maritime Boundary With Documentation

June 23, 1998

To the Senate of the United States:

    I transmit herewith, for advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, the Treaty Between the Government of the United States of 
America and the Government of Niue on the Delimitation of Maritime 
Boundary. The Treaty was signed in Wellington May 13, 1997. The report 
of the Department of State is enclosed for the information of the 
Senate.
    The sole purpose of the Treaty is to establish a maritime boundary 
in the South Pacific Ocean between the United States territory of 
American Samoa and Niue. The 279-mile boundary runs in a general east-
west direction, with the United States islands of American Samoa to the 
north, and Niue to the south. The boundary defines the limit within 
which the United States and Niue may exercise maritime jurisdiction, 
which includes fishery and other exclusive economic zone jurisdiction.
    Niue is in free association with New Zealand. Although it is self-
governing on internal matters, Niue conducts its foreign affairs in 
conjunction with New Zealand. Niue has declared, and does manage, its 
exclusive economic zone. Therefore, the United States requested, and 
received, confirmation from New Zealand that the Government of Niue had 
the requisite competence to enter into this agreement with the United 
States and to undertake the obligations contained therein.
    I believe this Treaty to be fully in the interest of the United 
States. It reflects the tradition of cooperation and close ties with 
Niue in this region. This boundary was never disputed.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to this Treaty and advice and consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
June 23, 1998.