Administration of Barack Obama, 2014 Nominations Submitted to the Senate November 21, 2014 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service Officers. Submitted January 6 Jill A. Pryor, of Georgia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the 11th Circuit, vice Stanley F. Birch, Jr., retired. Carolyn B. McHugh, of Utah, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the 10th Circuit, vice Michael R. Murphy, retired. Michelle T. Friedland, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Raymond C. Fisher, retired. Nancy L. Moritz, of Kansas, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the 10th Circuit, vice Deanell Reece Tacha, retired. John B. Owens, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Stephen S. Trott, retired. David Jeremiah Barron, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Michael Boudin, retired. Robin S. Rosenbaum, of Florida, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the 11th Circuit, vice Rosemary Barkett, resigned. Julie E. Carnes, of Georgia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the 11th Circuit, vice James Larry Edmondson, retired. Gregg Jeffrey Costa, of Texas, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Fortunato P. Benavides, retired. Rosemary Márquez, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Frank R. Zapata, retired. Pamela L. Reeves, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Thomas W. Phillips, retiring. Timothy L. Brooks, of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Arkansas, vice Jimm Larry Hendren, retired. Jeffrey Alker Meyer, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Mark R. Kravitz, deceased. James Donato, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice James Ware, retired. Beth Labson Freeman, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice an additional position in accordance with 28 USC 133(b)(1). Jennifer Prescod May-Parker, of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, vice Malcolm J. Howard, retired. Pedro A. Delgado Hernández, of Puerto Rico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Daniel R. Dominguez, retired. Bruce Howe Hendricks, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Margaret B. Seymour, retired. Alison Renee Lee, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Cameron M. Currie, retiring. Vince Girdhari Chhabria, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Susan Y. Illston, retired. Matthew Frederick Leitman, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Marianne O. Battani, retired. Judith Ellen Levy, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Nancy G. Edmunds, retired. Laurie J. Michelson, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice George Caram Steeh III, retired. James Maxwell Moody Jr., of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, vice Susan Webber Wright, retiring. Linda Vivienne Parker, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Robert H. Cleland, retired. Christopher Reid Cooper, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Royce C. Lamberth, retired. Daniel D. Crabtree, of Kansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Kansas, vice John W. Lungstrum, retired. M. Douglas Harpool, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Richard E. Dorr, deceased. Sheryl H. Lipman, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Jon P. McCalla, retired. Gerald Austin McHugh, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Harvey Bartle, III, retired. Edward G. Smith, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Berle M. Schiller, retired. Cynthia Ann Bashant, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Irma E. Gonzalez, retired. Stanley Allen Bastian, of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Washington, vice Edward F. Shea, retired. Diane J. Humetewa, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Mary H. Murguia, elevated. Jon David Levy, of Maine, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maine, vice George Z. Singal, retired. Steven Paul Logan, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice James A. Teilborg, retired. Douglas L. Rayes, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Frederick J. Martone, retired. Manish S. Shah, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Joan Humphrey Lefkow, retired. John Joseph Tuchi, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Roslyn Moore-Silver, retired. Mark G. Mastroianni, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Michael A. Ponsor, retired. Indira Talwani, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Mark L. Wolf, retired. Theodore David Chuang, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Roger W. Titus, retiring. George Jarrod Hazel, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Alexander Williams, Jr., retired. James D. Peterson, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Wisconsin, vice John C. Shabaz, retired. Nancy J. Rosenstengel, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Illinois, vice G. Patrick Murphy, retiring. Ronnie L. White, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice Jean C. Hamilton, retired. Michael P. Boggs, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Julie E. Carnes. Tanya S. Chutkan, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice an additional position in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1). Mark Howard Cohen, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Clarence Cooper, retired. M. Hannah Lauck, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice James R. Spencer, retiring. Leigh Martin May, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Beverly B. Martin, elevated. Eleanor Louise Ross, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Charles A. Pannell, Jr., retired. Leo T. Sorokin, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Joseph L. Tauro, retired. James Alan Soto, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice David C. Bury, retired. Gary Blankinship, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Ruben Monzon, resigned. Robert L. Hobbs, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice John Lee Moore, term expired. Amos Rojas, Jr., of Florida, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Christina Pharo, term expired. Peter C. Tobin, of Ohio, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Ohio for a term of 4 years, vice Cathy Jo Jones, resigned. Damon Paul Martinez, of New Mexico, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico for the term of 4 years, vice Kenneth J. Gonzales, resigned. Andrew Mark Luger, of Minnesota, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota for the term of 4 years, vice B. Todd Jones, term expired. Kevin W. Techau, of Iowa, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa for the term of 4 years, vice Stephanie M. Rose, resigned. William Ward Nooter, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice A. Franklin Burgess, retired. Sherry Moore Trafford, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Natalia Combs Greene, retired. Steven M. Wellner, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Kaye K. Christian, retired. Henry J. Aaron, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2020 (reappointment). Henry J. Aaron, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2014, vice Jeffrey Robert Brown, term expired. Debo P. Adegbile, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Thomas E. Perez, resigned. Cynthia H. Akuetteh, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Gabonese Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. Larry Edward André, Jr. of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Steven Joel Anthony, of Virginia, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2018, vice Jerome F. Kever, term expired. David J. Arroyo, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2016, vice Elizabeth Courtney, term expired. Tamara Wenda Ashford, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice Mary Ann Cohen, retired. Leslie E. Bains, of New York, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice William S. Jasien, term expired. Alfredo J. Balsera, of Florida, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2014, vice Elizabeth F. Bagley, term expired. Alfredo J. Balsera, of Florida, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2017 (reappointment). Robert C. Barber, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland. Tommy Port Beaudreau, of Alaska, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Rhea S. Suh. Colleen Bradley Bell, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Hungary. David Michael Bennett, of North Carolina, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2018, vice Thurgood Marshall, Jr., term expired. Timothy M. Broas, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Thomas A. Burke, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Paul T. Anastas, resigned. Dwight L. Bush, Sr., of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco. Leslie Ragon Caldwell, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Lanny A. Breuer, resigned. John P. Carlin, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Lisa O. Monaco, resigned. Michael G. Carroll, of New York, to be Inspector General, U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Donald A. Gambatesa, resigned. Brad R. Carson, of Oklahoma, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Joseph W. Westphal. Arnold A. Chacon, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Director General of the Foreign Service, vice Linda Thomas-Greenfield, resigned. Lanhee J. Chen, of California, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2018, vice Mark J. Warshawsky, term expired. Mark Bradley Childress, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania. Alan L. Cohen, of Virginia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2016, vice Dana K. Bilyeu, term expired. James Cole, Jr., of New York, to be General Counsel, Department of Education, vice Charles P. Rose. Nani A. Coloretti, of California, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice Daniel M. Tangherlini, resigned. Michael L. Connor, of New Mexico, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice David J. Hayes, resigned. Elisebeth Collins Cook, of Virginia, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2020 (reappointment). France A. Cordova, of New Mexico, to be Director of the National Science Foundation for a term of 6 years, vice Subra Suresh, resigned. Maureen Elizabeth Cormack, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Stephen Crawford, of Maryland, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the remainder of the term expiring December 8, 2015, vice Alan C. Kessler, resigned. Madelyn R. Creedon, of Indiana, to be Principal Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear Security Administration, vice Neile L. Miller, resigned. Bathsheba Nell Crocker, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (International Organization Affairs), vice Esther Brimmer, resigned. Steven Croley, of Michigan, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice Gregory Howard Woods.  Thomas Frederick Daughton,  of Arizona, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia. Karen Dynan, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Janice Eberly. Jonathan Elkind, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs), vice David B. Sandalow, resigned. Richard J. Engler, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice William E. Wright, term expired. John L. Estrada, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Camilla C. Feibelman, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring April 15, 2017, vice Stephen M. Prescott, term expired. Wanda Felton, of New York, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2017 (reappointment). Richard G. Frank, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Sherry Glied, resigned. Anthony Luzzatto Gardner, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Mark D. Gearan, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 1, 2015 (reappointment). J. Christopher Giancarlo, of New Jersey, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 2014, vice Jill Sommers, resigned. Sloan D. Gibson, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice W. Scott Gould. Mark Gilbert, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to New Zealand, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Independent State of Samoa. Rose Eilene Gottemoeller, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, vice Ellen O. Tauscher, resigned. Robert James Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Robert James Grey, Jr. , of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2017 (reappointment). Pamela K. Hamamoto, of Hawaii, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador. Michael A. Hammer, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile. Tony Hammond, of Missouri, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2018 (reappointment). Jo Emily Handelsman, of Connecticut, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Carl Wieman, resigned. Keith M. Harper, of Maryland, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the U.N. Human Rights Council. Matthew T. Harrington, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho. Bruce Heyman, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Canada. Joseph S. Hezir, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy, vice Steven Jeffrey Isakowitz, resigned. Thomas Hicks, of Virginia, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2017, vice Gracia M. Hillman, term expired. Jon M. Holladay, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture, vice Evan J. Segal. John Hoover, of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Sierra Leone. Michael Stephen Hoza, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon. Amy Jane Hyatt, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau. Dana J. Hyde, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation, vice Daniel W. Yohannes. Paul Nathan Jaenichen, Sr., of Kentucky, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration, vice David T. Matsuda, resigned. Peter Joseph Kadzik, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Ronald H. Weich, resigned. Tina S. Kaidanow, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank and status of Ambassador at Large, vice Daniel Benjamin, resigned. Marc A. Kastner, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Office of Science, Department of Energy, vice William F. Brinkman. Charles Norman Wiltse Keckler, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2016 (reappointment). Richard A. Kennedy, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring May 30, 2016, vice William Cobey, term expired. R. Gil Kerlikowske, of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice Alan D. Bersin, resigned. Esther Puakela Kia'aina, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Anthony Marion Babauta. Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. Frank G. Klotz, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, vice Thomas P. D'Agostino, resigned. Kenneth J. Kopocis, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Peter Silva Silva, resigned. Neil Gregory Kornze, of Nevada, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management, vice Robert V. Abbey, resigned. Harry James Franklyn Korrell III, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Caroline Diane Krass, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice Stephen Woolman Preston, resigned. Arun Madhavan Kumar, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, vice Suresh Kumar, resigned. Helen Meagher La Lime, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola. Nanci E. Langley, of Hawaii, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring November 22, 2018 (reappointment). William A. LaPlante, Jr., of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Sue C. Payton. Michael Anderson Lawson, of California, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization. John Gerson Levi, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). John Gerson Levi, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2017 (reappointment). Patricia Nelson Limerick, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Robert S. Martin, term expired. Vincent G. Logan, of New York, to be Special Trustee, Office of Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior, vice Ross Owen Swimmer, resigned. Mark E. Lopes, of Arizona, to be U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Gustavo Arnavat, resigned. Mark E. Lopes, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2016, vice Hector E. Morales, term expired. Shelly Colleen Lowe, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Jane M. Doggett, term expired. Donald Lu, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Albania. Heather L. MacDougall, of Florida, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2017, vice Horace A. Thompson, term expired. Victor B. Maddox, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2016 (reappointment). Tomasz P. Malinowski, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, vice Michael H. Posner, resigned. Noah Bryson Mamet, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Argentine Republic. L. Paige Marvel, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Timothy G. Massad, of Connecticut, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2017, vice Gary Gensler, term expired. Timothy G. Massad, of Connecticut, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, vice Gary Gensler. Susan McCue, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 3 years, vice Kenneth Francis Hackett, term expired. Terrell McSweeny, of the District of Columbia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the unexpired term of 7 years from September 26, 2010, vice Jon D. Leibowitz, resigned. Laurie I. Mikva, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2016 (reappointment). Vicki Miles-LaGrange, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2015, vice Roger L. Hunt, term expired. Debra L. Miller, of Kansas, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2017, vice Francis Mulvey, term expired. Ericka M. Miller, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, vice Eduardo M. Ochoa. James C. Miller, III, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the term expiring December 8, 2017 (reappointment). Martha L. Minow, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Martha L. Minow, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2017 (reappointment). Theodore Reed Mitchell, of California, to be Under Secretary of Education, vice Martha J. Kanter. Joseph P. Mohorovic, of Illinois, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2012, vice Nancy Ann Nord, term expired. Carlos Roberto Moreno, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize. Luis G. Moreno, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica. Jamie Michael Morin, of Michigan, to be Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense, vice Christine H. Fox, resigned. Vivek Hallegere Murthy, of Massachusetts, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a term of 4 years, vice, Regina M. Benjamin, resigned. Mark Thomas Nethery, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Eric D. Eberhard, term expired. Brian A. Nichols, of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Peru. Crystal Nix-Hines, of California, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as the U.S. Permanent Representative to the U.N. Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be an Under Secretary of State (Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment), vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years, vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Katherine M. O'Regan, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Raphael William Bostic. Franklin M. Orr, Jr., of California, to be Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy, vice Steven Elliot Koonin. Carlos Pascual, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Energy Resources), vice John Stern Wolf. Myrna Perez, of Texas, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Rosemary E. Rodriguez, term expired. Joseph Pius Pietrzyk, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Carolyn Hessler Radelet, of Virginia, to be Director of the Peace Corps, vice Aaron S. Williams, resigned.  David Radzanowski, of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Elizabeth M. Robinson. Sarah Bloom Raskin, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Neal S. Wolin.  Eunice S. Reddick, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger. Massie Ritsch, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Outreach, Department of Education, vice Peter Cunningham. Charles Hammerman Rivkin, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Economic and Business Affairs), vice Jose W. Fernandez, resigned. Elizabeth M. Robinson, of Washington, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned. Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Robert O. Work, resigned. Charles P. Rose, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring May 26, 2019, vice Robert Boldrey, term expired. Frank A. Rose, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Verification and Compliance), vice Rose Eilene Gottemoeller. John Roth, of Michigan, to be Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security, vice Richard L. Skinner, resigned. Thomas Edgar Rothman, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Yvette Roubideaux, of Maryland, to be Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, for the term of 4 years (reappointment). Adam M. Scheinman, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Special Representative of the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the rank of Ambassador. Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, of Missouri, to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission for a term expiring December 16, 2021, vice Shara L. Aranoff, term expired. Janice Marion Schneider, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Wilma A. Lewis, resigned. Eric T. Schultz, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zambia. Linda A. Schwartz, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Policy and Planning), vice Raul Perea-Henze, resigned. Peter A. Selfridge, of Minnesota, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, vice Capricia Penavic Marshall, resigned. Stefan M. Selig, of New York, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, vice Francisco J. Sanchez, resigned. Sarah Sewall, of Massachusetts, to be an Under Secretary of State (Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights), vice Maria Otero, resigned. James H. Shelton III, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Education, vice Anthony W. Miller, resigned. Robert A. Sherman, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Portuguese Republic. Douglas Alan Silliman, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait. Robert Michael Simon, of Maryland, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Sherburne B. Abbott. Christopher Smith, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice Charles DeWitt McConnell, resigned. Daniel Bennett Smith, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research), vice Philip S. Goldberg. Suzanne Eleanor Spaulding, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary, Department of Homeland Security, vice Rand Beers. Karen Clark Stanton, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. Richard Stengel, of New York, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice Tara D. Sonenshine. Rhea Sun Suh, of Colorado, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, vice Thomas L. Strickland, resigned. Kathryn D. Sullivan, of Ohio, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Jane Lubchenco, resigned. Puneet Talwar, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs), vice Andrew J. Shapiro. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 27, 2015, vice Johnnie Carson. Kathryn B. Thomson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, vice Robert S. Rivkin, resigned. Helen Tierney, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs. Constance B. Tobias, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals for a term of 6 years, vice James Philip Terry, term expired. George James Tsunis, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Norway. Anne J. Udall, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2016 (reappointment). Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2017 (reappointment). Victoria Marie Baecher Wassmer, of Illinois, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Barbara J. Bennett, resigned. David Weil, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp. Kelly R. Welsh, of Illinois, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice Cameron F. Kerry. Joseph William Westphal, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Kevin Whitaker, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia. Ellen Dudley Williams, of Maryland, to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, Department of Energy, vice Arun Majumdar, resigned. Roy K.J. Williams, of Ohio, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, vice John R. Fernandez, resigned. Robert A. Wood, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the Conference on Disarmament. Jessica Garfola Wright, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Erin C. Conaton, resigned. Portia Y. Wu, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Jane Oates. Janet L. Yellen, of California, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years, vice Ben S. Bernanke, term expired. Daniel W. Yohannes, of Colorado, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador. Michael Keith Yudin, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, vice Alexa E. Posny. Submitted January 7 Paige Eve Alexander, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Mara E. Rudman. Max Sieben Baucus, of Montana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of China. Sharon Y. Bowen, of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2018, vice Bartholomew Chilton, resigned. John Charles Cruden, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Ignacia S. Moreno, resigned. Janet Garvin McCabe, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Regina McCarthy, resigned. J. Mark McWatters, of Texas, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring August 2, 2019, vice Michael E. Fryzel, term expired. Leon Rodriguez, of Maryland, to be Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security, vice Alejandro N. Mayorkas, resigned. Eric Rosenbach, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Paul N. Stockton, resigned. David B. Shear, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Mark William Lippert, resigned. Darci L. Vetter, of Nebraska, to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Islam A. Siddiqui. Submitted January 9 Heidi Neel Biggs, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2017, vice Eric J. Tanenblatt, term expired. Deborah L. Birx, of Maryland, to be Ambassador at Large and Coordinator of U.S. Government Activities to Combat HIV/AIDS Globally. Michael W. Kempner, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2015, vice Michael Lynton, resigned. Suzette M. Kimball, of West Virginia, to be Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, vice Marcia K. McNutt, resigned. Christopher P. Lu, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor, vice Seth David Harris. Westley Watende Omari Moore, of Maryland, to be member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2016, vice Stan Z. Soloway, term expired. Submitted January 13 Lael Brainard, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 14 years from February 1, 2012, vice Elizabeth A. Duke, resigned. Stanley Fischer, of New York, to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years, vice Janet L. Yellen. Stanley Fischer, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 2006, vice Ben S. Bernanke. Submitted January 16 Stephen R. Bough, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Fernando J. Gaitan, Jr., retiring. Richard Franklin Boulware II, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Philip M. Pro, retired. Salvador Mendoza, Jr., of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Washington, vice Lonny R. Suko, retired. Staci Michelle Yandle, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Illinois, vice John Phil Gilbert, retiring. Gustavo Velasquez Aguilar, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice John D. Trasvina, resigned. Richard Christman, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2017 (reappointment). Maria Conteras-Sweet, of California, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Karen Gordon Mills, resigned. Nina Hachigian, of California, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Jerome H. Powell, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 14 years from February 1, 2014 (reappointment). Shamina Singh, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Alan D. Solomont, resigned. Shamina Singh, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2019 (reappointment). Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Yemen. Submitted January 30 Miranda A.A. Ballentine, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Terry A. Yonkers, resigned. Norman C. Bay, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2018, vice Jon Wellinghoff, resigned. L. Reginald Brothers, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology, Department of Homeland Security, vice Tara Jeanne O'Toole, resigned. William P. Doyle, of Pennsylvania, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2018. (reappointment). Ann Elizabeth Dunkin, of California, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Malcolm D. Jackson. Manuel H. Ehrlich, Jr., of New Jersey, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice John S. Bresland, resigned. Mileydi Guilarte, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Jan E. Boyer, resigned. Suzan G. LeVine, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Swiss Confederation, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein. Michael J. McCord, of Ohio, to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), vice Robert F. Hale. Brian P. McKeon, of New York, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice Kathleen H. Hicks, resigned. Christine E. Wormuth, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice James N. Miller, Jr., resigned. Withdrawn January 30 Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted February 6 Beth Bloom, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Donald L. Graham, retired. Paul G. Byron, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice James S. Moody, Jr., retiring. Darrin P. Gayles, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Patricia A. Seitz, retired. Cheryl Ann Krause, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Dolores Korman Sloviter, retired. Carlos Eduardo Mendoza, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice John Antoon II, retired. Submitted February 10 Cassandra Q. Butts, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. Mark Green, of the Wisconsin, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 2 years (reappointment). Matthew T. McGuire, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 2 years, vice Ian Hoddy Solomon, term expired.  Robert O. Work, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense, vice Ashton B. Carter, resigned. Submitted February 12 Todd A. Batta, of Iowa, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Brian T. Baenig, resigned. Maria Cancian, of Wisconsin, to be Assistant Secretary for Family Support, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Carmen R. Nazario. R. Jane Chu, of Missouri, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of 4 years, vice Rocco Landesman, retired. Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years (reappointment). Victoria Reggie Kennedy, of Massachusetts, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2016, vice Carolyn L. Gallagher, term expired. D. Nathan Sheets, of Maryland, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Lael Brainard, resigned. Mark Sobel, of Virginia, to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Margrethe Lundsager, resigning. Francis Xavier Taylor, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security, vice Caryn A. Wagner, resigned. Submitted February 24 Todd Sunhwae Kim, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice Kathryn A. Oberly, retired. Submitted February 26 Robin L. Rosenberg, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Adalberto Jose Jordan, elevated. Submitted February 27 Lisa S. Disbrow, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Jamie Michael Morin. Robert W. Holleyman II, of Louisiana, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Demetrios J. Marantis, resigned. Juan Carlos Iturregui, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2014, vice Thomas Joseph Dodd, term expired. Juan Carlos Iturregui, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2020 (reappointment). Roberta S. Jacobson, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2014, vice Adolfo A. Franco, term expired. Roberta S. Jacobson, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2020 (reappointment). Laura Junor, of Virginia, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice Jo Ann Rooney, resigned. Karen Kornbluh, of New York, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2016, vice Michael P. Meehan, term expired. Annette Taddeo-Goldstein, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2018, vice John P. Salazar, term expired. Submitted March 10 Nani A. Coloretti, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Maurice A. Jones, resigned. Estevan R. López, of New Mexico, to be Commissioner of Reclamation, vice Michael L. Connor, resigned. Erika Lizabeth Moritsugu, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Peter A. Kovar, resigned. Monica C. Regalbuto, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management), vice Ines R. Triay, resigned. Andrew H. Schapiro, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic. Withdrawn March 10 Nani A. Coloretti, of California, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice Daniel M. Tangherlini, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted March 11 Leslie Joyce Abrams, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia, vice W. Louis Sands, retiring. Submitted March 13 Judith M. Davenport, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2020, vice David H. Pryor, term expired. Bradford Raymond Huther, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Douglas A. Criscitello. Deirdre M. Daly, of Connecticut, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Connecticut for the term of 4 years, vice David B. Fein, resigned. John W. deGravelles, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana, vice James J. Brady, retired. James Walter Frazer Green, of Louisiana, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana for the term of 4 years, vice Donald J. Cazayoux, Jr., resigned. Ronald Lee Miller, of Kansas, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Kansas for the term of 4 years, vice Walter Robert Bradley, retired. Submitted March 31 Elliot F. Kaye, of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2013, vice Inez Moore Tenenbaum, resigned. Elliot F. Kaye, of New York, to be Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, vice Inez Moore Tenenbaum, resigned. Alfonso E. Lenhardt, of New York, to be Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Donald Kenneth Steinberg. Linda Struyk Millsaps, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2018, vice Paul Jones, term expired. Dean A. Reuter, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring September 14, 2016, vice Julie Fisher Cummings, term expired. Elizabeth Sembler, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2020 (reappointment). Submitted April 3 André Birotte, Jr., of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Gary Allen Feess, retired. Randolph D. Moss, Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Robert Leon Wilkins, elevated. Submitted April 7 Steven H. Cohen, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2019 (reappointment). Thomas P. Kelly III, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Djibouti. Jane Toshiko Nishida, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Michelle DePass, resigned. Sunil Sabharwal, of California, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Douglas A. Rediker, resigned. Gordon O. Tanner, of Alabama, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force, vice Charles A. Blanchard, resigned. Submitted April 10 Nancy B. Firestone, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Lydia Kay Griggsby, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Francis M. Allegra, term expired. Thomas L. Halkowski, of Pennsylvania, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Lynn Jeanne Bush, term expired. William D. Adams, of Maine, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities for a term of 4 years, vice James A. Leach, resigned. Robert M. Speer, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Mary Sally Matiella, resigned. Jonathan Nicholas Stivers, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Nisha Desai Biswal, resigned. Ramin Toloui, of Iowa, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Charles Collyns, resigned. Alice G. Wells, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Submitted April 11 Sylvia Mathews Burwell, of West Virginia, to be Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Kathleen Sebelius. Submitted May 1 Pamela Pepper, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, vice Charles N. Clevert, Jr., retired. Submitted May 5 Anthony G. Collins, of New York, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice William L. Wilson. J. Christopher Giancarlo, of New Jersey, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2019 (reappointment). Robert M. Gordon, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development, Department of Education, vice Carmel Martin, resigned. George Albert Krol, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kazakhstan. Cheryl A. LaFleur, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2019 (reappointment). Mark William Lippert, of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea. David Arthur Mader, of Virginia, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Daniel I. Werfel, resigned. John Maeda, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Jeffrey A. Murawsky, of Illinois, to be Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Robert A. Petzel. James D. Nealon, of New Hampshire, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras. Marcia Denise Occomy, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Director of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years, vice Walter Crawford Jones, resigned. Dana Shell Smith, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Qatar. Gentry O. Smith,  of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, vice Eric J. Boswell, resigned. Debra S. Wada, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Thomas R. Lamont, resigned. Submitted May 5 Pamela Harris, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Andre M. Davis, retired. Brenda K. Sannes, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Norman A. Mordue, retired. Submitted May 12 Robert Stephen Beecroft, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Arab Republic of Egypt. Stuart E. Jones, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq. Lisa Afua Serwah Mensah, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, vice Dallas P. Tonsager, resigned. Withdrawn May 12 Tommy Port Beaudreau, of Alaska, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Rhea S. Suh, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted May 15 Robert S. Adler, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2014 (reappointment). Victor M. Mendez, of Arizona, to be Deputy Secretary of Transportation, vice John D. Porcari, resigned. Theodore G. Osius III, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Joan A. Polaschik, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. Peter M. Rogoff, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, vice Polly Ellen Trottenberg, resigned. Submitted May 20 Geoffrey W. Crawford, of Vermont, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Vermont, vice William K. Sessions, III, retiring. Submitted May 21 Armando Ormar Bonilla, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Edward J. Damich, term expired. Patricia M. McCarthy, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Emily Clark Hewitt, retired.  Jeri Kaylene Somers, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice George W. Miller, retired. Submitted May 22 Bruce H. Andrews, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce, vice Rebecca M. Blank, resigned. Marcia Stephens Bloom Bernicat, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Marcus Dwayne Jadotte, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Nicole Yvette Lamb-Hale, resigned. James D. Pettit, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova. Laura S. Wertheimer, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, vice Steve A. Linick, resigned. Submitted June 2 Julián Castro, of Texas, to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Shaun L.S. Donovan. Shaun L.S. Donovan, of New York, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Submitted June 4 John R. Bass, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey. Leslie Ann Bassett, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay. Allan P. Mustard, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Turkmenistan. Todd D. Robinson, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala. Submitted June 5 Kevin F. O'Malley, of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland. Jessie Hill Roberson, of Alabama, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2018 (reappointment). Daniel J. Santos, of Virginia, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2017, vice Joseph F. Bader, term expired. Submitted June 9 Jane D. Hartley, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the French Republic. Cary Douglas Pugh, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice Robert Allen Wherry, Jr., retired. Withdrawn June 9 Jeffrey A. Murawsky, of Illinois, to be Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Robert A. Petzel, which was sent to the Senate on May 5, 2014. Submitted June 16 Erica J. Barks Ruggles, of Minnesota, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Rwanda. Brent Robert Hartley, of Oregon, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Slovenia. Donald L. Heflin, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cabo Verde. Earl Robert Miller, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana. David Pressman, of New York, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. David Pressman, of New York, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations. Wendy Beetlestone, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Michael M. Baylson, retired. Victor Allen Bolden, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Janet Bond Arterton, retiring. Mark A. Kearney, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice J. Curtis Joyner, retired. Joseph F. Leeson, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Eduardo C. Robreno, retired. Gerald J. Pappert, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Stewart R. Dalzell, retired. Submitted June 19 Arthur Lee Bentley III, of Florida, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Robert E. O'Neill, resigned. David J. Hale, of Kentucky, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, vice Charles R. Simpson III, retired. David Rivera, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee for the term of 4 years, vice Jerry E. Martin, resigned. Gregory N. Stivers, of Kentucky, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, vice Thomas B. Russell, retired. Submitted June 23 Carolyn Watts Colvin, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2019, vice Michael J. Astrue, resigned. Submitted June 26 Madeline Cox Arleo, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Dennis M. Cavanaugh, retired. Amos L. Mazzant, III, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice T. John Ward, retired. Robert Lee Pitman, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Texas, vice W. Royal Furgeson, Jr., retired. Robert William Schroeder III, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice David Folsom, retired. Christopher A. Hart, of Colorado, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years, vice Deborah A.P. Hersman, resigned. John W. Leslie, Jr., of Connecticut, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2019 (reappointment). Submitted July 7 Robert Alan McDonald, of Ohio, to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Eric K. Shinseki, resigned. Submitted July 9 Jess Lippincott Baily, of Ohio, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia. Judith Beth Cefkin, of Colorado, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Fiji Islands, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga, and Tuvalu. Robert Francis Cekuta, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan. Stafford Fitzgerald Haney, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, vice Daniel B. Poneman. Michele Jeanne Sison, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Deputy Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations. Michele Jeanne Sison, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. Margaret Ann Uyehara, of Ohio, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Montenegro. James Peter Zumwalt, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Senegal, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Withdrawn July 9 Elizabeth M. Robinson, of Washington, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted July 14 Craig B. Allen, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brunei Darussalam. Sharon Block, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2019, vice Nancy Jean Schiffer, term expiring. Jane D. Hartley, of New York, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Monaco. Richard M. Mills, Jr., of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia. Joseph L. Nimmich, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Richard Serino, resigned. Anne E. Rung, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, vice Joseph G. Jordan, resigned. Alissa M. Starzak, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Brad Carson, resigned. John Francis Tefft, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Russian Federation. Submitted July 17 Charles C. Adams, Jr., of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland. Matthew Vincent Masterson, of Ohio, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2017, vice Gineen Bresso Beach, term expired. Christy A. McCormick, of Virginia, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Donetta Davidson, term expired. Submitted July 21 Mickey D. Barnett, of New Mexico, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2020 (reappointment). Charles H. Fulghum, of North Carolina, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Margaret Ann Sherry, resigned. James L. Huffman, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Michael Butler, term expired. James L. Huffman, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2020 (reappointment). Adri Davin Jayaratne, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Brian Vincent Kennedy. Barbara A. Leaf, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates. Virginia E. Palmer, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi. William V. Roebuck, of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Bahrain. Submitted July 22 Jonodev Osceola Chaudhuri, of Arizona, to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Tracie Stevens. Submitted July 23 Jeffrey Martin Baran, of Virginia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2015, vice William D. Magwood, IV, resigning. Stephen G. Burns, of Maryland, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2019, vice George Apostolakis, term expired. Submitted July 28 Thomas Frieden, of New York, to be Representative of the United States on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization, vice Nils Maarten Parin Daulaire, resigned. Perry L. Holloway, of South Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. Willie E. May, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology, vice Patrick Gallagher, resigned. Therese W. McMillan, of California, to be Federal Transit Administrator, vice Peter M. Rogoff. Pamela Leora Spratlen, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan. Submitted July 29 David Nathan Saperstein, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, vice Suzan D. Johnson Cook. Submitted July 31 Allison Dale Burroughs, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Rya W. Zobel, retired. Amit Priyavadan Mehta, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Ellen Segal Huvelle, retired. Manson K. Brown, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan, resigned. Carmen Amalia Corrales, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2015, vice Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, term expired. Rafael J. López, of Maryland, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Bryan Hayes Samuels, resigned. Mari Carmen Aponte, of the District of Columbia, to be Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador. Andrew LaMont Eanes, of Kansas, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2019, vice Carolyn W. Colvin, term expired. Brodi L. Fontenot, of Louisiana, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice Daniel M. Tangherlini, resigned. Mary Lucille Jordan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2020 (reappointment). P. David Lopez, of Arizona, to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Lourdes Maria Castro Ramírez, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Sandra Brooks Henriquez. Robert T. Yamate, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Madagascar, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Union of the Comoros. Submitted August 5 Jorge Luis Alonso, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Ronald A. Guzman, retiring. John Robert Blakey, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice James Holderman, retired. Submitted September 8 Michael P. Botticelli, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice R. Gil Kerlikowske, resigned. Seth B. Carpenter, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Matthew S. Rutherford. Gilberto de Jesus, of Maryland, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant. Russell C. Deyo, of New Jersey, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Rafael Borras, resigned. Sheila Gwaltney, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. Jennifer Ann Haverkamp, of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Kerri-Ann Jones, resigned. Todd A. Fisher, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2016, vice James A. Torrey, term expired. Colette Dodson Honorable, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2017, vice John Robert Norris, resigned. Virginia Tyler Lodge, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2019, vice William B. Sansom, term expired. Daniel Henry Marti, of Virginia, to be Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Executive Office of the President, vice Victoria Angelica Espinel, resigned. Peter Michael McKinley, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Carlos A. Monje, Jr., of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Polly Trottenberg, resigned. Deven J. Parekh, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2016, vice Katherine M. Gehl, resigned. Ronald Alan Pearlman, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2015, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired. Nancy Bikoff Pettit, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia. Sarah R. Saldaña, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice John Morton, resigned. Carlos J. Torres, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps, vice Carolyn Hessler Radelet, resigned. Ronald Anderson Walter, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2019, vice Barbara Short Haskew, term expired. Jeanne E. Davidson, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Donald C. Pogue, retired. Haywood Stirling Gilliam, Jr., of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Claudia Wilken, retiring. Withdrawn September 8 Annette Taddeo-Goldstein, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2018, vice John P. Salazar, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on February 27, 2014. Submitted September 10 Michele Thoren Bond, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Consular Affairs), vice Janice L. Jacobs, resigned. Michael Young, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2020 (reappointment). Submitted September 15 Charlotte A. Burrows, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2019, vice Jacqueline A. Berrien, resigned. Benjamin L. Cardin, of Maryland, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 69th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Isobel Coleman, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. Isobel Coleman, of New York, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. Carol Leslie Hamilton, of California, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 69th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Ronald H. Johnson, of Wisconsin, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 69th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 69th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Robert M. Scher, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Madelyn R. Creedon, resigned. Withdrawn September 15 Debo P. Adegbile, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Thomas E. Perez, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted September 18 Allison Beck, of the District of Columbia, to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director, vice George H. Cohen, resigned. Francine Berman, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Gary D. Glenn, term expired. Mario Cordero, of California, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2019 (reappointment). Tho Dinh-Zarr, of Texas, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 31, 2018, vice Deborah Hersman, resigned. Maria Echaveste, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Mexican States. Brian James Egan, of Maryland, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State, vice Harold Hongju Koh, resigned. Paul A. Folmsbee, of Oklahoma, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali. Earl L. Gay, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, vice Christine M. Griffin. Victoria Ann Hughes, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2016, vice James Palmer, term expired. Eric P. Liu, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 27, 2017, vice Layshae Ward, term expired. Mary Catherine Phee, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Sudan. Joseph Pius Pietrzyk, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2017 (reappointment). Dallas P. Tonsager, of South Dakota, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring May 21, 2020, vice Jill Long Thompson, term expired. Richard Rahul Verma, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of India. Deborah Willis, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Carol M. Swain, term expired. Joan Marie Azrack, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Joanna Seybert, retired. Alfred H. Bennett, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Kenneth M. Hoyt, retired. Loretta Copeland Biggs, of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina, vice James A. Beaty, Jr., retired. Elizabeth K. Dillon, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Virginia, vice Samuel Grayson Wilson, retired. George C. Hanks, Jr., of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Nancy Friedman Atlas, retired. Jose Rolando Olvera, Jr., of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Hilda G. Tagle, retired. Jill N. Parrish, of Utah, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Utah, vice Dee V. Benson, retired. Withdrawn September 18 Rhea Sun Suh, of Colorado, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, vice Thomas Thomas L. Strickland, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Alison Renee Lee, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Cameron M. Currie, retiring, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted November 12 Leon Aron, of Virginia, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2016, vice S. Enders Wimbush, resigned. Walter A. Barrows, of Ohio, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2019 (reappointment). David J. Berteau, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Alan F. Estevez, resigned. Leigh A. Bradley, of Virginia, to be General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Will A. Gunn, resigned. Romonia S. Dixon, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Matthew Francis McCabe, term expired. Sim Farar, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Sim Farar, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2018 (reappointment). Jeffery S. Hall, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring October 13, 2018, vice Leland A. Strom, term expired. William Joseph Hybl, of Colorado, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Michelle K. Lee, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, vice David J. Kappos, resigned. Jay Neal Lerner, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, vice Jon T. Rymer, resigned. Dava J. Newman, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Lori Garver, resigned. Michael P. O'Rielly, of New York, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2014 (reappointment). Azita Raji, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Sweden. Robert A. Salerno, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Robert Isaac Richter, retired. Mark Scarano, of New Hampshire, to be Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission, vice Sandford Blitz, resigning. David S. Shapira, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2019, vice Dennis J. Toner, term expired. Adewale Adeyemo, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Marisa Lago. Antony Blinken, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of State, vice William J. Burns, resigned. Daniel R. Elliott, III, of Ohio, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2018 (reappointment). David Avren Jones, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2018 (reappointment). Michael D. Kennedy, of Georgia, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2018 (reappointment). Marisa Lago, of New York, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Miriam E. Sapiro, resigned. Lauren McGarity McFerran, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2019, vice Nancy Jean Schiffer, term expiring. Nicholas J. Rasmussen, of Virginia, to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice Matthew G. Olsen, resigned. Antonio F. Weiss, of New York, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Mary John Miller. Dale A. Drozd, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Anthony W. Ishii, retired. Michael Greco, of New York, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Joseph R. Guccione, term expired. LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Nicholas G. Garaufis, retired. Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Anthony J. Scirica, retired. Kara Farnandez Stoll, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Randall R. Rader, retired. Withdrawn November 12 Michael G. Carroll, of New York, to be Inspector General, U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Donald A. Gambatesa, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Robert O. Work, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Sharon Block, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2019, vice Nancy Jean Schiffer, term expiring, which was sent to the Senate on July 14, 2014. Submitted November 13 Jeffery Martin Baran, of Virginia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30,2018, vice Allison M. Macfarlane, resigning. Loretta E. Lynch, of New York, to be Attorney General, vice Eric H. Holder, Jr. John E. Mendez, of California, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice Sharon Y. Bowen, resigned. Elissa Slotkin, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Derek H. Chollet. Submitted November 19 Matthew Stuart Butler, of Ohio, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Rosemary E. Rodriguez, term expired. Mark R. Rosekind, of California, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, vice David L. Strickland, resigned. Withdrawn November 19 Myrna Perez, of Texas, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Rosemary E. Rodriguez, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2014. Submitted November 20 Ann Donnelly, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Sandra L. Townes, retiring.  Roseann A. Ketchmark, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Gary A. Fenner, retiring. Travis Randall McDonough, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Curtis L. Collier, retired. Names: Aaron, Henry J.; Abrams, Leslie J.; Adams, Charles C., Jr.; Adams, William D.; Adegbile, Debo P.; Adeyemo, Adewale; Adler, Robert S.; Aguilar, Gustavo V.; Akuetteh, Cynthia H.; Alexander, Paige E.; Allen, Craig B.; Alonso, Jorge L.; André, Larry E., Jr.; Andrews, Bruce H.; Anthony, Steven J.; Aponte, Mari C.; Arleo, Madeline Cox; Aron, Leon; Arroyo, David J.; Ashford, Tamara W.; Azrack, Joan M.; Baily, Jess Lippincott; Bains, Leslie E.; Ballentine, Miranda A.A.; Balsera, Alfredo J.; Baran, Jeffery M.; Baran, Jeffrey M.; Barber, Robert C.; Barks-Ruggles, Erica J.; Barnett, Mickey D.; Barron, David J.; Barrows, Walter A.; Bashant, Cynthia A.; Bass, John R.; Bassett, Leslie A.; Bastian, Stanley A.; Batta, Todd A.; Baucus, Max S.; Bay, Norman C.; Beaudreau, Tommy P.; Beck, Allison; Beecroft, Robert S.; Beetlestone, Wendy; Bell, Colleen Bradley; Bennett, Alfred H.; Bennett, David M.; Bentley, Arthur L., III; Berman, Francine; Bernicat, Marcia Stephens Bloom; Berteau, David J.; Biggs, Heidi Neel; Biggs, Loretta Copeland; Birotte, André, Jr.; Birx, Deborah L.; Blakey, John R.; Blankinship, Gary; Blinken, Antony J.; Block, Sharon; Bloom, Beth; Boggs, Michael P.; Bolden, Victor A.; Bond, Michele Thoren; Bonilla, Armando O.; Botticelli, Michael P.; Bough, Stephen R.; Boulware, Richard F., II; Bowen, Sharon Y.; Bradley, Leigh A.; Brainard, Lael; Broas, Timothy M.; Brooks, Timothy L.; Brothers, L. Reginald, Jr.; Brown, Manson K.; Burke, Thomas A.; Burns, Stephen G.; Burroughs, Allison D.; Burrows, Charlotte A.; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Bush, Dwight L., Sr.; Butler, Matthew S.; Butts, Cassandra Q.; Byron, Paul G.; Caldwell, Leslie Ragon; Cancian, Maria; Cardin, Benjamin L.; Carlin, John P.; Carnes, Julie E.; Carpenter, Seth B.; Carroll, Michael G.; Carson, Brad R.; Castro Ramírez, Lourdes M.; Castro, Julián ; Cefkin, Judith B.; Cekuta, Robert F.; Chacon, Arnold A.; Chaudhuri, Jonodev O.; Chen, Lanhee J.; Chhabria, Vince Girdhari; Childress, Mark B.; Christman, Richard; Chu, R. Jane; Chuang, Theodore D.; Chutkan, Tanya S.; Clark, Julia A.; Cohen, Alan L.; Cohen, Mark H.; Cohen, Steven H.; Cole, James, Jr.; Coleman, Isobel; Collins, Anthony G.; Coloretti, Nani A.; Colvin, Carolyn Watts; Connor, Michael L.; Contreras-Sweet, Maria; Cook, Elisebeth Collins; Cooper, Christopher R.; Cordero, Mario; Cordova, France A.; Cormack, Maureen E.; Corrales, Carmen A.; Costa, Gregg J.; Crabtree, Daniel D.; Crawford, Geoffrey W.; Crawford, Stephen; Creedon, Madelyn R.; Crocker, Bathsheba N.; Croley, Steven; Cruden, John C.; Daly, Deirdre M.; Daughton, Thomas F.; Davenport, Judith M.; Davidson, Jeanne E.; de Jesus, Gilberto; DeArcy Hall, LaShann Moutique; deGravelles, John W.; Delgado Hernández, Pedro A.; Deyo, Russell C.; Dillon, Elizabeth K.; Dinh-Zarr, Tho Bella; Disbrow, Kisa S.; Dixon, Romonia S.; Donato, James; Donnelly, Ann M.; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; Doyle, William P.; Drozd, Dale A.; Dunkin, Ann E.; Dynan, Karen; Eanes, Andrew L.; Echaveste, Maria; Egan, Brian J.; Ehrlich, Manuel H., Jr.; Elkind, Jonathan; Elliott, Daniel R., III; Engler, Richard J.; Estrada, John L.; Farar, Sim; Feibelman, Camilla C.; Felton, Wanda; Firestone, Nancy B.; Fischer, Stanley; Fisher, Todd A.; Folmsbee, Paul A.; Fontenot, Brodi L.; Frank, Richard G.; Freeman, Beth Labson; Frieden, Thomas R.; Friedland, Michelle T.; Fulghum, Charles H.; Gardner, Anthony L.; Gay, Earl L.; Gayles, Darrin P.; Gearan, Mark D.; Giancarlo, J. Christopher; Gibson, Sloan D.; Gilbert, Mark; Gilliam, Haywood S., Jr.; Gordon, Robert M.; Gottemoeller, Rose E.; Greco, Michael; Green, James W.F.; Green, Mark; Grey, Robert J., Jr.; Griggsby, Lydia Kay; Guilarte, Mileydi; Gwaltney, Sheila S.; Hachigian, Nina; Hale, David J.; Halkowski, Thomas L.; Hall, Jeffery S.; Hamamoto, Pamela K.; Hamilton, Carol L.; Hammer, Michael A.; Hammond, Tony; Handelsman, Jo Emily; Haney, Stafford F.; Hanks, George C., Jr.; Harper, Keith M.; Harpool, M. Douglas; Harrington, Matthew T.; Harris, Pamela; Hart, Christopher A.; Hartley, Brent R.; Hartley, Jane D.; Haverkamp, Jennifer A.; Hazel, George J.; Heflin, Donald L.; Hendricks, Bruce H.; Heyman, Bruce; Hezir, Joseph S.; Hicks, Thomas; Hobbs, Robert L.; Holladay, Jon M.; Holleyman, Robert W., II; Holloway, Perry L.; Honorable, Colette Dodson; Hoover, John; Hoza, Michael S.; Huffman, James L.; Hughes, Victoria A.; Humetewa, Diane J.; Huther, Bradford R.; Hyatt, Amy J.; Hybl, William J.; Hyde, Dana J.; Iturregui, Juan C.; Jacobson, Roberta S.; Jadotte, Marcus D.; Jaenichen, Paul N., Sr.; Jayaratne, Adri Davin; Johnson, Ronald H.; Jones, David A.; Jones, Stuart E.; Jordan, Mary L.; Junor, Laura; Kadzik, Peter J.; Kaidanow, Tina S.; Kastner, Marc A.; Kaye, Elliot F.; Kearney, Mark A.; Keckler, Charles N.W.; Kelly, Thomas P., III; Kempner, Michael W.; Kennedy, Michael D.; Kennedy, Richard A.; Kennedy, Victoria R.; Kerlikowske, R. Gil; Ketchmark, Roseann A.; Kia'aina, Esther Puakela; Kiernan, Leslie Berger; Kim, Todd S.; Kimball, Suzette M.; Klotz, Frank G.; Kopocis, Kenneth J.; Kornbluh, Karen; Kornze, Neil G.; Korrell, Harry J.F., III; Krass, Caroline D.; Krause, Cheryl A.; Krol, George A.; Kumar, Arun M.; La Lime, Helen Meagher; LaFleur, Cheryl A.; Lago, Marisa; Langley, Nanci E.; LaPlante, William A., Jr.; Lauck, M. Hannah; Lawson, Michael A.; Leaf, Barbara A.; Lee, Alison R.; Lee, Michelle K.; Leeson, Joseph F., Jr.; Leitman, Matthew F.; Lenhardt, Alfonso E.; Lerner, Jay N.; Leslie, John W., Jr.; Levi, John G.; LeVine, Suzan G.; Levy, Jon D.; Levy, Judith E.; Limerick, Patricia Nelson; Lipman, Sheryl H.; Lippert, Mark W.; Liu, Eric P.; Lodge, Virginia Tyler; Logan, Steven P.; Logan, Vincent G.; Lopes, Mark E.; López , Estevan R.; Lopez, P. David; López, Rafael J.; Lowe, Shelly C.; Lu, Christopher P.; Lu, Donald; Luger, Andrew M.; Lynch, Loretta E.; MacDougall, Heather L.; Maddox, Victor B.; Mader, David A.; Maeda, John; Malinowski, Tomasz P.; Mamet, Noah B.; Márquez, Rosemary; Marti, Daniel H.; Martinez, Damon P.; Marvel, L. Paige; Massad, Timothy G.; Masterson, Matthew V.; Mastroianni, Mark G.; May, Leigh M.; May, Willie E.; May-Parker, Jennifer Prescod; Mazzant, Amos L., III; McCabe, Janet Garvin; McCarthy, Patricia M.; McCord, Michael J.; McCormick, Christy A.; McCue, Susan; McDonald, Robert A.; McDonough, Travis R.; McFerran, Laurne M.; McGuire, Matthew T.; McHugh, Carolyn B.; McHugh, Gerald A., Jr.; McKeon, Brian P.; McKinley, Peter M.; McMillan, Therese W.; McSweeny, Terrell; McWatters, J. Mark; Mehta, Amit P.; Mendez, Victor M.; Mendoza, Carlos E.; Mendoza, Salvador, Jr.; Menez, John E.; Mensah, Lisa Afua Serwah; Meyer, Jeffrey A.; Michelson, Laurie J.; Mikva, Laurie I.; Miles-LaGrange, Vicki; Miller, Debra L.; Miller, Earl R.; Miller, Ericka M.; Miller, James C., III; Miller, Ronald L.; Mills, Richard M., Jr.; Millsaps, Linda Struyk; Minow, Martha L.; Mitchell, Theodore R.; Mohorovic, Joseph P.; Monje, Carlos A.; Moody, James M., Jr.; Moore, Westley W.O.; Moreno, Carlos R.; Moreno, Luis G.; Morin, Jamie M.; Moritsugu, Erika L.; Moritz, Nancy L.; Moss, Randolph D.; Murawsky, Jeffrey A.; Murthy, Vivek Hallegere; Mustard, Allan P.; Nealon, James D.; Nethery, Mark T.; Newman, Dava J.; Nichols, Brian A.; Nimmich, Joseph L.; Nishida, Jane Toshiko; Nix-Hines, Crystal; Nooter, William W.; Novelli, Catherine A.; Occomy, Marcia D.; Olvera, Jose R., Jr.; O'Malley, Kevin F.; O'Regan, Katherine M.; O'Rielly, Michael P.; Orr, Franklin M., Jr.; Osius, Theodore G., III; Owens, John B.; Palmer, Virginia E.; Pappert, Gerald J.; Parekh, Deven J.; Parker, Linda V.; Parrish, Jill N.; Pascual, Carlos; Pearlman, Ronald A.; Pepper, Pamela; Perez, Myrna; Peterson, James D.; Pettit, James D.; Pettit, Nancy Bikoff; Phee, Mary C.; Pietrzyk, Joseph P.; Pitman, Robert L.; Polaschik, Joan A.; Powell, Jerome H.; Pressman, David; Pryor, Jill A.; Pugh, Cary Douglas; Radelet, Carolyn Hessler; Radzanowski, David; Raji, Azita; Raskin, Sarah Bloom; Rasmussen, Nicholas J.; Rayes, Douglas L.; Reddick, Eunice S.; Reeves, Pamela L.; Regalbuto, Monica C.; Restrepo, Luis F.; Reuter, Dean A.; Ritsch, Massie; Rivera, David; Rivkin, Charles H.; Roberson, Jessie Hill; Robinson, Elizabeth M.; Robinson, Todd D.; Rodriquez, Leon; Roebuck, William V.; Rogoff, Peter M.; Rojas, Amos, Jr.; Rooney, Jo Ann; Rose, Charles P.; Rose, Frank A.; Rosekind, Mark R.; Rosenbach, Eric; Rosenbaum, Robin S.; Rosenberg, Robin L.; Rosenstengel, Nancy J.; Ross, Eleanor L.; Roth, John; Rothman, Thomas E.; Roubideaux, Yvette; Rung, Anne E.; Sabharwal, Sunil; Saldaña, Sarah R.; Salerno, Robert A.; Sannes, Brenda K.; Santos, Daniel J.; Saperstein, David N.; Scarano, Mark; Schapiro, Andrew H.; Scheinman, Adam M.; Scher, Robert M.; Schmidtlein, Rhonda K.; Schneider, Janice M.; Schroeder, Robert W., III; Schultz, Eric T.; Schwartz, Linda A.; Selfridge, Peter A.; Selig, Stefan M.; Sembler, Elizabeth; Sewall, Sarah; Shah, Manish S.; Shapira, David S.; Shear, David B.; Sheets, D. Nathan; Shelton, James H., III; Sherman, Robert A.; Sherwood-Randall, Elizabeth; Silliman, Douglas A.; Simon, Robert M.; Singh, Shamina; Sison, Michele J.; Slotkin, Elissa; Smith, Christopher; Smith, Dana Shell; Smith, Daniel B.; Smith, Edward G.; Smith, Gentry O.; Sobel, Mark; Somers, Jeri K.; Sorokin, Leo T.; Soto, James A.; Spaulding, Suzanne E.; Speer, Robert M.; Spratlen, Pamela L.; Stanton, Karen Clark; Starzak, Alissa M.; Stengel, Richard; Stivers, Gregory N.; Stivers, Jonathan N.; Stoll, Kara Farnandez; Suh, Rhea S.; Suh, Rhea Sun; Sullivan, Kathryn D.; Taddeo-Goldstein, Annette; Talwani, Indira; Talwar, Puneet; Tanner, Gordon O.; Taylor, Francis X.; Techau, Kevin W.; Tefft, John F.; Thomas-Greenfield, Linda; Thomson, Kathryn B.; Tierney, Helen; Tobias, Constance B.; Tobin, Peter C.; Toloui, Ramin; Tonsager, Dallas P.; Torres, Carlos J.; Trafford, Sherry Moore; Tsunis, George J.; Tuchi, John J.; Tueller, Matthew H.; Udall, Anne J.; Uyehara, Margaret A.; Valencia-Weber, Gloria; Verma, Richard R.; Vetter, Darci L.; Wada, Debra S.; Walter, Ronald A.; Wassmer, Victoria M. Baecher; Weil, David; Weiss, Antonio F.; Wellner, Steven M.; Wells, Alice G.; Welsh, Kelly R.; Wertheimer, Laura S.; Westphal, Joseph W.; Whitaker, Kevin; White, Ronnie L.; Williams, Ellen Dudley; Williams, Roy K.J.; Willis, Deborah; Wood, Robert A.; Work, Robert O.; Wormuth, Christine E.; Wright, Jessica Garfola; Wu, Portia Y.; Yamate, Robert T.; Yandle, Staci M.; Yellen, Janet L.; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Young, Michael G.; Yudin, Michael K.; Zumwalt, James P. 