Administration of Barack Obama, 2014 Checklist of White House Press Releases December 31, 2014 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. Released January 1 Statement by National Economic Council Director Eugene B. Sperling on the need for congressional action to extend emergency unemployment benefits Released January 3 Fact sheet: Strengthening the Federal Background Check System To Keep Guns Out of Potentially Dangerous Hands Released January 5 Text of a readout of Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken's telephone conversation with National Security Adviser Faleh al-Fayyad of Iraq Released January 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and National Economic Council Director Eugene B. Sperling Released January 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Launches Quadrennial Energy Review Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the situation in South Sudan Fact sheet: President Obama's Promise Zones Initiative Released January 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in December Released January 12 Statement from the Office of the Vice President: President Obama Announces Presidential Delegation to the State of Israel To Attend the State Funeral of Former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon Released January 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the decision by Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif-Khonsari of Iran to place a wreath at the grave of former Lebanese Hizballah leader Imad Mugniyah Released January 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New Public-Private Manufacturing Innovation Institute Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 106 Fact sheet: U.S. Conventional Arms Transfer Policy Fact sheet: The President and First Lady's Call to Action on College Opportunity Released January 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Summary of Technical Understandings Related to the Implementation of the Joint Plan of Action on the Islamic Republic of Iran's Nuclear Program Statement by the Press Secretary on the Special Tribunal for Lebanon Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 667 and S. 1614 Released January 17 Transcript of a background conference call by senior administration officials on the administration's review of U.S. signals intelligence and electronic surveillance programs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3547 Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Security Adviser Shotaro Yachi of Japan at the White House Fact sheet: Review of U.S. Signals Intelligence Advance text of the President's remarks on U.S. signals intelligence and electronic surveillance programs Released January 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on the attack on a restaurant in Kabul, Afghanistan Released January 19 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the situation in Ukraine Released January 20 Statement by the Press Secretary on the implementation of the Joint Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program Released January 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: The American Voting Experience: Report and Recommendations of the Presidential Commission on Election Administration Released January 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a readout of administration officials' panel discussion with the U.S. Conference of Mayors Released January 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3527 and S. 230 Released January 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces First Round of Guests in First Lady's Box—State of the Union Address Released January 28 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Additional Guests in the First Lady's Box—State of the Union Address Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Additional Guests in the First Lady's Box—State of the Union Address Fact sheet: Opportunity for All—Rewarding Hard Work Fact sheet: The State of the Union Fact Sheet: Opportunity for All Excerpts of the President's State of the Union Address Advance text of the President's State of the Union Address Released January 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Security and Foreign Affairs Adviser Sartaj Aziz of Pakistan Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Securing a Dignified Retirement for All Americans Released January 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on freedom of the press in China Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman: Advance Estimate of GDP for the Fourth Quarter of 2013 Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado of Brazil Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Empowering All Americans With the Skills Needed for In-Demand Jobs Released January 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: The President's Call to Action To Give the Long-Term Unemployed a Fair Shot Released February 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released February 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman Statement by the Press Secretary on the Congressional Budget Office report on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Fact sheet: Opportunity for All—Answering the President's Call To Enrich American Education Through ConnectED Released February 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the U.S.-Iraq Energy Joint Coordination Committee meeting Released February 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate action to block legislation extending unemployment insurance benefits Released February 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack Statement by the Press Secretary: Stat Sheet: Opportunity for All—CEA Highlights of Recent Farm Sector and Rural Economy Performance Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2642 Text: Highlights of Recent Farm Sector and Rural Economy Performance Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in January Fact sheet: Opportunity for All : Establishing a New "Made in Rural America" Export and Investment Initiative Released February 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the state visit of President François Hollande of France Text of an op-ed by President Obama and President François Hollande of France for the Washington Post and Le Monde: France and the U.S. Enjoy a Renewed Alliance Released February 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Cyprus Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of legislation increasing the public debt limit Text: National Strategy for Combating Wildlife Trafficking Fact sheet: United States-France Economic and Commercial Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-France Security Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S. Cooperation With France on Protecting the Environment, Building a Clean Energy Economy, and Addressing Climate Change Fact sheet: Student and Youth Exchange Programs Between the United States and France Fact sheet: U.S.-France Cooperation on Science and Technology Fact sheet: National Strategy for Combating Wildlife Trafficking & Commercial Ban on Trade in Elephant Ivory Released February 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the release of the "Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity" by the National Institute of Standards and Technology Statement by the Press Secretary: Launch of the Cybersecurity Framework Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2860 and S. 1901 Text: Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Rewarding Hard Work Released February 13 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of Interior Prince Muhammad bin Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia Text: U.S. Drought Monitor: California Fact sheet: President Obama Leading Administration-wide Drought Response (embargoed until February 14) Released February 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials on the visit of King Abdullah II of Jordan Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the President's upcoming visit to Mexico Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the President's meeting with King Abdullah II of Jordan Released February 15 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 25 and S. 540 Released February 17 Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman: The Fifth Anniversary of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Released February 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of an on-the-record teleconference briefing by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman and Council of Economic Advisers Member Betsey A. Stevenson on the Congressional Budget Office report on the minimum wage Text: Improving the Fuel Efficiency of American Trucks—Bolstering Energy Security, Cutting Carbon Pollution, Saving Money, and Supporting Manufacturing Innovation Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman and Council of Economic Advisers Member Betsey A. Stevenson : Congressional Budget Office Report Finds Minimum Wage Lifts Wages for 16.5 Million Workers Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Improving the Fuel Efficiency of American Trucks—Bolstering Energy Security, Cutting Carbon Pollution, Saving Money and Supporting Manufacturing Innovation Released February 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Fact sheet: President Obama To Sign Executive Order on Streamlining the Export/Import Process for America's Businesses Fact sheet: Key Deliverables for the 2014 North American Leaders Summit Released February 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Fact sheet: Executive Actions: Answering the President's Call To Strengthen Our Patent System and Foster Innovation Released February 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S.J. Res. 28 and S.J. Res. 29 Released February 22 Statement by the Press Secretary on the swearing-in of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Released February 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Ugandan President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni's signing of legislation criminalizing homosexuality Released February 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Two New Public-Private Manufacturing Innovation Institutes and Launches the First of Four New Manufacturing Innovation Institute Competitions Released February 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Fact sheet: President Obama Lays Out Vision for 21st Century Transportation Infrastructure Released February 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a press release from Adobe Systems Inc.: Adobe Commits Over $300 Million in Software and Teacher Training to President Obama’s ConnectED Initiative (embargoed until February 28) Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: President Obama Launches My Brother's Keeper Initiative To Build Ladders of Opportunity for Boys and Young Men of Color Released February 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Host First-Ever White House Film Festival: Announces $400 Million in New Private Sector Commitments Toward ConnectED Goal Text of a press release from Prezi Inc.: Prezi Becomes a Technology Partner in the White House ConnectED Initiative Released March 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman, Domestic Policy Council Director Cecilia Muñoz, National Economic Council Director Eugene B. Sperling, and Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Report: The President's Proposal To Expand the Earned Income Tax Credit Fact sheet: International Support for Ukraine Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Middle Class Tax Cuts in the President's FY 2015 Budget Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: The President's Fiscal Year 2015 Budget Released March 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's travel to Israel Released March 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the Executive order blocking property of certain persons contributing to the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2431 Released March 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on Vice President Joe Biden and Dr. Jill T. Biden's trip to Chile and the Dominican Republic Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken's meeting with United Nations Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Joint Mission in Syria Special Coordinator Sigrid A.M. Kaag Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in February Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's travel to the United Arab Emirates and Djibouti Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Promoting College Opportunity and Graduation Released March 9 Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's travel to the United Arab Emirates and Djibouti Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's travel to Turkey, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia Released March 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman: The 2014 Economic Report of the President Fact sheet: The United States and Chile Released March 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Establishes Point Arena-Stornetta Unit of California Coastal National Monument Statement by the Press Secretary on the third anniversary of the Great East Japan Earthquake Text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the Department of State's Global Chiefs of Mission Conference Released March 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Council of Economic Advisers member Betsey A. Stevenson Released March 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate action on legislation to extend emergency unemployment benefits Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 23 Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: Rewarding Hard Work by Strengthening Overtime Protections Released March 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Text of a press release from the Department of Education: Obama Administration Takes Action To Protect Americans From Predatory, Poor-Performing Career Colleges Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Peace and Prosperity in Northern Ireland Released March 16 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Released March 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the situation in Ukraine Fact sheet: Ukraine-Related Sanctions Announcement: White House To Host Event Highlighting Efforts To Boost Climate Change Preparedness and Resilience Released March 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released March 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on U.S. admittance as an Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative candidate country Fact sheet: The President's Climate Data Initiative: Empowering America's Communities To Prepare for the Effects of Climate Change Fact sheet: The Economic Case for Increasing the Minimum Wage: State by State Impact Released March 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the situation in Ukraine Fact sheet: Expanding Economic Opportunity for Women and Working Families Released March 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary on the Turkish Government's restriction of access to Twitter Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2650, H.R. 3370, H.R. 4076, and S.J. Res. 32 Released March 23 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the death of former Prime Minister Adolfo Suárez González of Spain Released March 24 Transcript of a videoconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a background press briefing by a senior administration official on the Group of Seven (G–7) summit meeting in The Hague, Netherlands Fact sheet: Advancing Global Nuclear Security Fact sheet: Cooperation at Japan's Fast Critical Assembly Fact sheet: United States-Japan Nuclear Security Working Group Fact sheet: Belgium Highly Enriched Uranium and Plutonium Removals Fact sheet: Italy Highly Enriched Uranium and Plutonium Removals Released March 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a press gaggle by senior administration officials Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Race to the Top Setting the Pace for Gains Across the Education System Statement by the Press Secretary on the New Hampshire legislature's passage of legislation to expand Medicaid coverage under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3771 White House and Department of Education report: Setting the Pace: Expanding Opportunity for America's Students Under Race to the Top Fact sheet: U.S.-Kazakhstan Cooperative Activities in Nuclear Security Fact sheet: Enhancing the Security of the Maritime Supply Chain Gift Basket Fact sheet: U.S. Counter Nuclear Smuggling Activities Released March 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary: New White House Report: The Impact of Raising the Minimum Wage on Women and the Importance of Ensuring a Robust Tipped Minimum Wage White House report: The Impact of Raising the Minimum Wage on Women and the Importance of Ensuring a Robust Tipped Minimum Wage Fact sheet: Bilateral Relations Between the United States and Belgium Fact sheet: U.S.-EU Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-EU Economic Ties That Bind Fact sheet: U.S.-EU Cooperation on Common Security and Defense Policy Fact sheet: U.S.-EU Counterterrorism Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S. Efforts in Support of NATO Allies and Partners Fact sheet: U.S.-EU Cyber Cooperation Released March 27 Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on the National Security Agency's section 215 bulk telephony metadata program Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the U.N. Human Rights Council's passage of a resolution to promote reconciliation, accountability, and human rights in Sri Lanka Fact sheet: The Administration's Proposal for Ending the Section 215 Bulk Telephony Metadata Program Excerpts of the President's press conference remarks on his meeting with Pope Francis Released March 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials on the President's meeting with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia Statement by the Press Secretary on the selection of former Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg to be Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Text: Climate Action Plan: Strategy To Reduce Methane Emissions Fact sheet: Climate Action Plan—Strategy To Cut Methane Emissions Fact sheet: United States-Saudi Arabia Bilateral Relationship Released March 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the House Republican budget proposal Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4302 Released April 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on action by the New York State legislature to expand access to early childhood education Released April 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in South Sudan Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4152 and S. 2183 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2019 Released April 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in South Sudan (corrected; dated April 3) Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in February Fact sheet: The President's Framework for Investing in Tunisia Released April 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces America's PrepareAthon!: First National Day of Action, April 30 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4275 and S. 1557 Fact sheet: Youth CareerConnect Fact sheet: Strengthening Entrepreneurship at Home and Abroad Fact sheet: Expanding Opportunity for All: Ensuring Equal Pay for Women and Promoting the Women's Economic Agenda Released April 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Expanding Opportunity for All: Ensuring Equal Pay for Women and Promoting the Women's Economic Agenda Released April 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives action on Federal budget legislation Released April 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a White House blog post by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney: President Obama and Vice President Biden's 2013 Tax Returns Released April 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of Finance Sakhir Ahmad Abbas al-Wajih and Minister of Planning and International Cooperation Muhammad al-Saadi of Yemen Released April 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Commutation Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 404 Released April 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: American Job Training Investments: Skills and Jobs To Build a Stronger Middle Class Advance text of remarks by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum in Cambridge, MA Released April 17 Fact sheet: Building on Progress—Supporting Solar Deployment and Jobs Fact sheet: Affordable Care Act by the Numbers Released April 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 2195 Released April 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a press release from the Council on Environmental Quality: Obama Administration Officials To Celebrate Earth Day 2014 Released April 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in South Sudan Released April 24 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the deaths of three U.S. health care workers in an attack in Kabul, Afghanistan Released April 25 Transcript of a background press briefing by a senior administration official on Japan-U.S. trade negotiations Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Text of a joint fact sheet: The United States-Republic of Korea Alliance: A Global Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-Japan Global and Regional Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-Japan Bilateral Cooperation Fact sheet: Taking Action To Improve Teacher Preparation Released April 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Attends Roundtable With Korean Business Executives To Encourage Investment in United States Released April 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Evan S. Medeiros Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Congratulates American Companies on Completing Commercial Agreements Fact sheet: The President's Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative Released April 28 Transcript of a background conference call by senior administration officials on economic sanctions against Russia in response to the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary on the Egyptian Government's use of mass trials and sentencing Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Malaysian opposition leaders Dato' Seri Anwar Ibrahim, Lim Guan Eng, and Mustafa Ali Fact sheet: United States-Philippines Bilateral Relations Fact sheet: U.S.-Philippines Partnership for Growth Released April 29 Fact sheet: Not Alone—Protecting Students From Sexual Assault Released April 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2014 Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Nabil Fahmy of Egypt Released May 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Big Data and Privacy Working Group Review Released May 2 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in April Fact sheet: The United States and Germany—Leading Together Released May 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Counselor to the President John D. Podesta Fact sheet: Marking the Administration's Progress on Mental Health Released May 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's travel to Israel Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Vice President and High Representative for Foreign Affairs Catherine Ashton of the European Union Text of a U.S. Global Change Research Program report: Climate Change Impacts in the United States: The Third National Climate Assessment Fact sheet: What Climate Change Means for Regions Across America and Major Sectors of the Economy—The U.S. National Climate Assessment Released May 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's notification of Congress of his intention to withdraw Generalized System of Preferences benefits from Russia Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with President Shimon Peres of Israel Released May 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a readout of U.S.-Israel Consultative Group meetings Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority Released May 8 Text of a White House progress report: Advancing Toward a Clean Energy Future Fact sheet: President Obama Announces Commitments and Executive Actions To Advance Solar Deployment and Energy Efficiency Released May 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 994 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the South Sudan peace agreement Text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at Palmachim Air Force Base, Israel Released May 10 Transcript of a weekly address by First Lady Michelle Obama (dated May 9; embargoed until May 10) Released May 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx Text of a White House blog post by Office of Digital Strategy Director of Online Content Lindsay Holst: A Numbers-Based Case for Why It's Time To Act on Infrastructure Text of a White House report: The Economic Importance of Investing in Our Infrastructure Fact sheet: The United States and Uruguay—A Growing Bilateral Relationship Released May 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in the Central African Republic Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces President Ahmad al-Jarba Released May 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the coal mine accident in Soma, Turkey Fact sheet: Building a 21st-Century Infrastructure: Modernizing Infrastructure Permitting Released May 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate action on housing finance reform legislation Statement by the Press Secretary on Federal Communications Commission adoption of revised mobile spectrum holdings policies Text of a White House blog post by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney: The President and Vice President's 2013 Financial Disclosure Forms Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the sentencing of Mariam Yahya Ibrahim Ishag in Sudan Released May 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Under Secretary for Health Robert A. Petzel Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4120 and H.R. 4192 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the terrorist attacks in Nairobi, Kenya Released May 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on additional humanitarian assistance for South Sudan Released May 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3627 White House and Department of Commerce report: Winning Business Investment in the United States Fact sheet: On White House Roundtable on Investing in America Released May 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Designates Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument Statement by the Press Secretary on a proposed House of Representatives amendment authorizing the closure of the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station Released May 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack in Urumqi, China White House report: Increasing Tourism To Spur Economic Growth: Progress on the President's National Travel and Tourism Strategy (dated May 21; embargoed until May 22) Text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs Global Food Security Symposium Text of a U.S. Agency for International Development fact sheet: U.S. Government Initiative Reduces Hunger and Poverty for Millions Text of a U.S. Agency for International Development press release: USAID Pledges To Improve Nutrition for Millions of Children and Mothers With New Approach Fact sheet: President Obama Visits Cooperstown To Highlight Travel and Tourism That Is Growing our Economy and Creating Jobs (dated May 21; embargoed until May 22) Released May 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 685 and H.R. 1209 Released May 24 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 862 Released May 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Released May 26 Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the President's telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary on the swearing-in of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India Released May 27 Transcript of a background teleconference briefing by senior administration officials on Afghanistan Text: Background on the Exhibits, Students, and Competitions at the White House Science Fair Fact sheet: President Obama To Host White House Science Fair Fact sheet: Bringing the U.S. War in Afghanistan to a Responsible End Released May 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a background teleconference call by a senior administration official on the President's commencement address at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY Fact sheet: The Administration's Fiscal Year 2015 Overseas Contingency Operations Request Fact sheet: Harnessing the Power of Data for a Clean, Secure, and Reliable Energy Future Fact sheet: Obama Administration Designates the First 12 Manufacturing Communities Through the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership To Spur Investment and Create Jobs Advance text of the President's commencement address at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY Released May 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases Report on the Administration's All-of-the-Above Energy Strategy as a Path to Sustainable Economic Growth White House report: The All-of-the-Above Energy Strategy as a Path to Sustainable Economic Growth Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2014 Fact sheet: President Obama Applauds Commitments To Address Sports-Related Concussions in Young People Released May 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and remarks by the President Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on the President's upcoming visit to Poland, Belgium, and France Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 309 Text: My Brother's Keeper Task Force Report to the President Text of an Environmental Protection Agency press release: Monday: EPA Administrator To Make Clean Air Act Announcement as Part of the President's Climate Action Plan Fact sheet: Opportunity for All: My Brother's Keeper Blueprint for Action Released June 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a press release from the Environmental Protection Agency: EPA Proposes First Guidelines To Cut Carbon Pollution From Existing Power Plants Released June 3 Fact sheet: The United States and Poland: Strong and United Fact sheet: European Reassurance Initiative and Other U.S. Efforts in Support of NATO Allies and Partners Fact sheet: The United States and Central and Eastern Europe: Enduring Cooperation Released June 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Egypt Statement by the Press Secretary on the 25th anniversary of Tiananmen Square Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential determination pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 Fact sheet: U.S. Security Assistance to Ukraine Released June 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Text of an op-ed by President Obama for Indian Country Today: On My Upcoming Trip to Indian Country Transcript of remarks by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and Jill T. Biden at a White House roundtable discussion on college affordability and student loans Fact sheet: The 2014 G–7 Summit in Brussels Released June 6 Statement by the Press Secretary on a White House report on the health impacts of climate change on Americans White House report: The Health Impacts of Climate Change on Americans Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in May Fact sheet: Overview of U.S. Contributions to Peace and Security in Europe Since WWII Fact sheet: Normandy Landings Released June 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 724, H.R. 1036, H.R. 1228, H.R. 1451, H.R. 2391, H.R. 2939, H.R. 3060, H.R. 3658, H.R. 4032, H.R. 4488, and S. 611 Fact sheet: Making Student Loans More Affordable Fact sheet: Supporting Western Governors as They Deal With Wildfire, Drought, and Other Climate Impacts Released June 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Report: Taking Action—Higher Education and Student Debt Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1726 and H.R. 3080 White House report: Taking Action: Higher Education and Student Debt Released June 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a readout by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest of White House Counsel W. Neil Eggleston's briefing to White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough on recommendations to prevent the inadvertent release of sensitive information during the President's international travel Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Iraq Advance text of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's keynote address at the annual conference of the Center for a New American Security: The Strength of American Leadership, the Power of Collective Action Released June 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Release of the President's Medical Exam Text of a memorandum from Physician to the President and White House Medical Unit Director Ronny L. Jackson to Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney: The President's Periodic Physical Exam Fact sheet: The United States and Australia: An Alliance for the Future Fact sheet: Strengthening Tribal Communities Through Education and Economic Development Released June 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released June 14 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Afghanistan Fact sheet: National Disaster Resilience Competition Released June 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's War Powers Resolution report notifying Congress of the deployment of U.S. military personnel to Iraq Released June 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney White House report: Making in America: U.S. Manufacturing Entrepreneurship and Innovation Text of an Office of Science and Technology Policy report: The Challenge of Ocean Acidification Text of a National Science and Technology Council report: National Strategic Plan for Federal Aquaculture Research (2014–2019) Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Pen and Phone Actions To Spur Innovation and Entrepreneurship To Revitalize American Manufacturing Fact sheet: Leading at Home and Internationally To Protect Our Ocean and Coasts Released June 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text of a report from the Manufacturing Alliance of Communities: Maker Mayors Action Report Fact sheet: President Obama To Host First-Ever White House Maker Faire Released June 19 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the U.S. response to the Ugandan Government's enactment of legislation criminalizing homosexuality Released June 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Domestic Policy Council Director Cecilia Muñoz, Department of Homeland Security Deputy Director Alejandro N. Mayorkas, and National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Ricardo Zuñiga on efforts to enhance immigration enforcement on the Southwest border Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on the situation in Iraq Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases the United States Counter Piracy and Maritime Security Action Plan Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Nine Facts About American Families and Work Text: United States Counter Piracy and Maritime Security Action Plan Text of an op-ed by President Obama for Military Times: Obama: Post-9/11 GI Bill Keeps Promise to Newest Vets Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: Nine Facts About American Families and Work Fact sheet: The Economic Challenge Posed by Declining Pollinator Populations Fact sheet: The United States and New Zealand: Forward Progress Released June 21 Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Economics of Paid and Unpaid Leave Released June 22 Text of the agenda for the White House Summit on Working Families Fact sheet: The White House Summit on Working Families Released June 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the conviction of journalists in Egypt Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: Work-Life Balance and the Economics of Workplace Flexibility Text of an op-ed by President Obama for the Huffington Post: Family-Friendly Workplace Policies Are Not Frills—They're Basic Needs Released June 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the White House Forum on Global LGBT Human Rights Fact sheet: Advancing the Human Rights of LGBT Persons Globally Released June 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Progress Report: President Obama's Climate Action Plan Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2014 White House report: President Obama's Climate Action Plan Progress Report Text of a readout of meetings between senior administration officials and business leaders on climate change Released June 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture Statement by the Press Secretary on the Massachusetts Government's enactment of legislation to raise the minimum wage Statement by National Security Adviser  Susan E. Rice on the murder of human rights activist Salwa Bugaighis in Benghazi, Libya Text of a readout of National Security Adviser  Susan E. Rice's meeting with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore Statement by National Security Council spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the administration's Fiscal Year 2015 Overseas Contingency Operations budget request to Congress Text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at a dinner honoring President Shimon Peres of Israel at the Israeli Embassy on June 25 Fact sheet: The Administration's Fiscal Year 2015 Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) Request Released June 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on U.S. antipersonnel landmine policy Text of a summary of findings presented to the President by Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II following a review of "Veterans Health Administration: Issues Impacting Access to Timely Care at VA Medical Facilities" Fact sheet: Changes to U.S. Anti-Personnel Landmine Policy Released June 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. Supreme Court ruling on collective bargaining by public employees Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 316, S. 1044, S. 1254, and S. 2086 Fact sheet: The United States and Chile—A Strategic Partnership Released July 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released July 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Missed Opportunities and the Consequences of State Decisions Not To Expand Medicaid Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: Missed Opportunities: Consequences of State Decisions Not To Expand Medicaid Released July 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in June Released July 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1681 Released July 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Factsheet on the Democratic Republic of the Congo Executive Order Text of a White House blog post by Assistant to the President and Senior Adviser H. Daniel Pfeiffer: From Denver to Austin: "The Bear Is Loose" Again Fact sheet: Emergency Supplemental Request To Address the Increase in Child and Adult Migration From Central America in the Rio Grande Valley Areas of the Southwest Border Advance text of remarks by White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Philip H. Gordon at the Haaretz Israel Conference on Peace in Tel Aviv, Israel Released July 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Indonesia Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the 10th anniversary of the murder of American journalist Paul Klebnikov in Moscow, Russia Released July 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives action on legislation to grant the Speaker of the House of Representatives authority to initiate litigation against the President Text of a background statement by a White House official on the release of a White House progress report on the President's "year of action" White House report: Year of Action: An Update on What President Obama Has Done This Year To Help Ensure Opportunity for All Americans Released July 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New Partnership With the Private Sector To Strengthen America's Small Businesses; Renews the Federal Government's QuickPay Initiative: 26 Companies Committed to SupplierPay Initiative Released July 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Economic Analysis of Transportation Infrastructure Investment Statement by the Press Secretary: Expected Attendees at the White House Iftar Dinner Text of a National Economic Council and Council of Economic Advisers report: An Economic Analysis of Transportation Infrastructure Investment Released July 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Progress in Four Years of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy Released July 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the announcement of additional economic sanctions against Russia in response to its actions in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2388 Fact sheet: Taking Action To Support State, Local, and Tribal Leaders as They Prepare Communities for the Impacts of Climate Change Released July 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in Ukraine Fact sheet: Building a 21st Century Infrastructure: Increasing Public and Private Collaboration With the Build America Investment Initiative Released July 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on the extension of negotiations to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons Statement by Secretary of State John F. Kerry: Extension of Iran Nuclear Talks (released by the Department of State) Released July 19 Transcript of a July 18 background briefing by senior administration officials on ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons (released by the Department of State) Released July 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Labour Party Leader and Leader of the Opposition Edward S. Miliband of the United Kingdom Fact sheet: Taking Action To Support LGBT Workplace Equality Is Good for Business Fact sheet: President Obama Applauds New Commitments in Support of the My Brother’s Keeper Initiative Released July 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S. circuit court rulings in the King v. Burwell and Halbig v. Burwell cases Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 803 White House report by Vice President Joe Biden: Ready To Work: Job-Driven Training and American Opportunity Text of a readout of White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough's meetings with Chief of Staff Peter Altmaier of Germany in Berlin, Germany Text of a readout of a teleconference call between senior administration officials and Governors to discuss the Federal response to the humanitarian situation on the Mexico-U.S. border Fact sheet: Ready To Work at a Glance: Job-Driven Training and American Opportunity Fact sheet: Ready To Work: New Actions To Expand Job-Driven Training and Broaden the Pathway to the Middle Class Released July 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Text of a Department of State press release: Media Note: Summary of Understandings Related to the Implementation and Extension of the Joint Plan of Action (released by the Department of State on July 22) Fact sheet: Increasing Investment in Rural America (embargoed until July 24) Released July 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on Meriam Yahya Ibrahim Ishag's departure from Sudan Released July 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 255, H.R. 272, H.R. 291, H.R.330, H.R.356, H.R. 507, H.R. 697, H.R 876, H.R. 1158, H.R. 1216, H.R. 1376, H.R. 1813, H.R. 2337, and H.R. 3110 Fact sheet: Visit of President Perez Molina of Guatemala, President Hernandez of Honduras, and President Sanchez Ceren of El Salvador July 26 Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the crash of Air Algerie Flight 5071 July 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken Text of a background statement by a White House official on the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders Presidential Summit town hall meeting Transcript of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice to the National Leadership Assembly for Israel at the National Press Club Fact sheet: The President's Young Africa Leaders Initiative (YALI) Fact sheet: The Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders July 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: The Cost of Delaying Action To Stem Climate Change Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces New Executive Secretary/Chief of Staff for the National Security Council Staff Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Cost of Delaying Action To Stem Climate Change Fact sheet: Empowering America's Agricultural Sector and Strengthening Food Resilience Through the President's Climate Data Initiative July 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Director Jason L Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2014 Transcript of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the U.S. Institute of Peace: Africa and America: Partners in a Shared Future July 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on a House of Representatives proposal to block expansion of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program Statement by the Press Secretary on the announcement of a humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza Text of a joint statement by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations and Secretary of State John F. Kerry announcing a humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza (released by the Department of State) Text of a readout of Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes’s meeting with Iraqi Chaldean and Assyrian community leaders Fact sheet: Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces Executive Order Transcript of remarks by Secretary of State John F. Kerry on the announcement of a humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza from New Delhi, India (released by the Department of State) August 1 Transcript of a July 31 on-the-record teleconference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Linda Thomas-Greenfield, and National Security Council Senior Director for Development and Democracy Gayle E. Smith on the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Statement by the Press Secretary: The Obama Administration's Government-Wide Response to Influx of Central American Migrants at the Southwest Border Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of immigration reform legislation Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1528 and S. 517 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Director Jason L Furman on the employment situation in July Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the 70th anniversary of the massacre of Roma and Sinti people at Auschwitz-Birkenau Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Adviser to the Vice President Jacob Sullivan's meeting with the Syrian defector "Caesar" Text of a statement by Secretary of State John F. Kerry on the situation in Gaza (released by the Department of State) August 3 Statement by National Security Council Deputy Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the earthquake in southwestern China August 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and former Press Secretaries James F. "Jay" Carney, Robert L. Gibbs, Dana M. Perino, Scott McClellan, Ari Fleischer, Richard L. "Jake" Siewert, Jr., Joseph Lockhart, Michael D. McCurry, Dee Myers, Marlin Fitzwater, and Ronald H. Nessen on the death of former Press Secretary James S. Brady Statement by the Press Secretary on H.J. Res. 76 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 76 Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thani of Libya Fact sheet: Shared Investment in Youth Fact sheet: U.S.-African Cooperation in Advancing Gender Equality Fact sheet: U.S.-African Cooperation on Global Health Fact sheet: U.S. Engagement on Climate Change and Resilience in Africa Fact sheet: U.S.-African Cooperation on Food Security Fact sheet: Investing in African Trade for Our Common Future Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Democratic Institutions, Good Governance, and Human Rights in Africa Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Combating Wildlife Trafficking August 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Prime Minister Navinchandra Ramgoolam of Mauritius Fact sheet: The Doing Business in Africa Campaign Fact sheet: Powering Africa: Increasing Access to Power in Sub-Saharan Africa August 6 Text of a statement by the chair of the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Peacekeeping in Africa Fact sheet: Security Governance Initiative Fact sheet: Partnering To Counter Terrorism in Africa August 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the situation in Iraq Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3230 Text of a statement by Secretary of State John F. Kerry on the situation in Iraq (released by the Department of State) August 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 606, H.R. 1671, H.R. 2291, H.R. 3212, H.R. 3472, H.R. 3548, H.R. 3765, H.R. 4028, H.R. 4360, H.R. 4386, H.R. 4631, H.R. 4838, H.R. 5021, H.R. 5195, S. 653, S. 1104, and S. 1799 Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with members of the Iraqi Yazidi community August 11 Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's telephone conversation with President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen Fact sheet: Improving and Simplifying Digital Services August 12 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on humanitarian aid to South Sudan August 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Text: Commitments to Action on College Opportunity Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the death of Brazilian Presidential candidate Eduardo Campos Fact sheet: Improving College Opportunity August 14 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the situation in Iraq August 15 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the President's travel to Estonia Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on reports of a Russian armored military column in Ukraine August 17 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the President's authorization of military operations in Iraq August 19 Statement by Principal Deputy Press Eric Schultz on World Humanitarian Day August 20 Statement by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco on an attempted rescue operation by U.S. military forces in Syria August 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the entry of a Russian convoy into Ukraine Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the 25th anniversary of the Baltic Way August 24 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the release of Peter Theo Curtis from captivity in Syria August 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Appoints 2014–2015 Class of White House Fellows August 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs joint fact sheet: DoD and VA Take New Steps To Support the Mental Health Needs of Service Members and Veterans Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Executive Actions To Fulfill Our Promises to Service Members, Veterans, and Their Families August 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest August 28 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Director Jason L Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2014 August 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record teleconference call by Senior Director for European Affairs Charles A. Kupchan and National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the President's upcoming travel to Estonia and Wales Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Iran sanctions designations August 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on the election of a new European Council President and High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the European Council meeting on the situation in Ukraine September 1 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the President's authorization of military operations in Iraq September 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's authorization of additional U.S. military personnel to protect U.S. diplomatic facilities and personnel in Iraq Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's Travel to China September 3 Statement by the Press Secretary on CVS Health Corporation's decision to end the sale of tobacco products and initiate a smoking-cessation campaign Fact sheet: The United States and Estonia—NATO Allies and Global Partners Fact sheet: The United States and Lithuania—NATO Allies and Global Partners Fact sheet: The United States and Latvia—NATO Allies and Global Partners Fact sheet: U.S. Support and Reassurance Initiatives for the Baltics and Central Europe September 4 Transcript of an on-the-record teleconference call by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and U.S. Ambassador to NATO Douglas E. Lute on the President's meetings at the NATO summit Fact sheet: Wales Summit—NATO's Changing Role in Afghanistan September 5 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of al-Shabaab terrorist organization leader Ahmed Abdi Godane Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Director Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in August Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the President's Meeting with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey Fact sheet: NATO and U.S. Efforts in Support of NATO Partners, Including Ukraine, Moldova, and Georgia September 6 Transcript of a weekly address by Vice President Joe Biden (dated September 5; embargoed until September 6) Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's travel to Yemen September 7 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on U.S. airstrikes around the Haditha Dam in Iraq September 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's travel to Saudi Arabia September 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Corporation for National and Community Service press release: Presidents Clinton, George W. Bush, and George H.W. Bush To Join President Obama To Commemorate AmeriCorps 20th Anniversary Fact sheet: Build America Infrastructure Investment Summit September 10 Transcript of a background conference call by senior administration officials previewing the President's address to the Nation on U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization Fact sheet: Strategy To Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) Excerpts of the President's address to the Nation on U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization Advance text of the President's address to the Nation on U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization September 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Christian religious leaders of the Middle East September 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Efforts To Expand National Service and Improve Pathways to Employment for National Service Alumni in Celebration of the 20th Anniversary of AmeriCorps September 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a White House blog post by National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients: Growing Our Economy and Strengthening Our Financial System Fact sheet: Growing Our Economy and Strengthening Our Financial System (prepared by the National Economic Council and the Department of the Treasury) Fact sheet: U.S. Response to the Ebola Epidemic in West Africa (embargoed until September 16) September 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Council on Environmental Quality fact sheet: Obama Administration Partners With Private Sector on New Commitments To Slash Emissions of Potent Greenhouse Gases and Catalyze Global HFC Phase Down Readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with South Korean National Security Office Director Kim Kwan-jin September 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest September 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: White House Announces Executive Actions and Commitments From Across the Country To Advance Solar Deployment and Energy Efficiency Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Ukraine Fact sheet: Obama Administration Takes Actions To Combat Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria September 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Launches Second Promise Zone Competition To Create Economic Opportunity in High-Poverty Communities Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 124 and S. 231 Text of a Department of State press release: Media Note: Building International Support To Counter ISIL Fact sheet: Launch of the "It’s On Us" Public Awareness Campaign To Help Prevent Campus Sexual Assault September 21 Statement by the Press Secretary on the signing of an agreement to form a Government of national unity in Afghanistan Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the first anniversary of the terrorist attack at the Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi, Kenya September 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on Southeast Asia at the Brookings Institution Fact sheet: The Equal Futures Partnership—Commitments and Progress To Expand Women's Economic and Political Participation September 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on U.S. airstrikes in Syria Statement by the Press Secretary on the conviction of Uighur dissident Ilham Tohti in China Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on U.S. antipersonnel landmine policy Fact sheet: Changes to U.S. Anti-Personnel Landmine Policy Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Actions To Strengthen Global Resilience to Climate Change and Launches Partnerships To Cut Carbon Pollution Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Civil Society September 24 Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's telephone conversation with President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen Fact sheet: Comprehensive U.S. Government Approach to Foreign Terrorist Fighters in Syria and the Broader Region Fact sheet: The U.S. Global Anticorruption Agenda Fact sheet: Announcing New U.S. Open Government Commitments on the Third Anniversary of the Open Government Partnership Fact sheet: President Obama To Designate Largest Marine Monument in the World Off-Limits to Development Advance text of the President's remarks to the United Nations General Assembly September 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Advance text of the President's remarks at a United Nations meeting on the Ebola outbreak in West Africa September 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a briefing by senior administration officials on the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India Statement by the Press Secretary on the Global Health Security Agenda Summit Statement by the Press Secretary on the decisions by the Parliaments of the United Kingdom and Belgium to authorize the use of military force against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 120, H.R. 594, H.R. 2600, H.R. 3043, H.R. 3716, H.R. 4197, H.R. 4751, H.R. 4809, H.R. 5062, H.R. 5134, H.R. 5404, S. 276, S. 476, S. 1603, S. 2154, and S. 2258 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2014 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the adoption of a U.N. resolution on the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender persons Text of a joint statement on support for United Nations peacekeeping operations (released by the Office of the Vice President) Text of a statement by the chair of the Global Health Security Agenda Summit Fact sheet: Global Health Security Agenda: Getting Ahead of the Curve on Epidemic Threats Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the Global Health Security Agenda conference September 27 Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with the leaders of the Syrian Opposition Coalition September 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4323, H.R. 4980, and S.J. Res. 40 September 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: The White House Launches the "My Brother's Keeper Community Challenge" October 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of Security and Justice Ivo Opstelten and National Coordinator for Security and Counterterrorism H.W.M. "Dick" Schoof of the Netherlands Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi of China October 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Security Adviser Ajit Kumar Doval of India Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Pham Binh Minh of Vietnam Advance text of the President's remarks at Northwestern University in Evanston, IL October 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a press briefing by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco, Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony S. Fauci, U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Rajiv J. Shah, and Gen. David M. Rodriquez, USA, commander, U.S. Africa Command, on the U.S. response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Nation's Top Scientists and Innovators Statement by the Press Secretary on the decisions by the governments of Australia, Denmark, and Turkey to authorize the use of military force against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Statement by the Press Secretary on the decision by the Government of the Netherlands to authorize the use of military force against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in September Text of a readout of Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken's meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Miroslav Lajcak of Slovakia Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the death of Laurent DuPasquier in Ukraine Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Manufacturing Innovation Institute Competition October 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4994 Fact sheet: Administration Announces New Executive Actions To Improve Quality of Care for Medicare Beneficiaries Fact sheet: The U.S. Response to the Ebola Epidemic in West Africa October 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the decision by the Government of Canada to authorize the use of military force against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization October 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Department of Homeland Security press release: Enhanced Ebola Screening To Start at Five U.S. Airports for All People Entering U.S. From Ebola-Affected Countries Fact sheet: Screening of Travelers at Airports (released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Department of Homeland Security) October 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: 15 Economic Facts About Millennials Fact sheet: President Obama's Agenda for Creating Economic Opportunity for Millennials October 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces a Presidential Emergency Board, Names Members Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with National Intelligence Organization Undersecretary Hakan Fidan of Turkey Fact sheet: President Obama Designates San Gabriel Mountains National Monument October 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the Chibok, Nigeria, girls held in captivity by the Boko Haram terrorist organization Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Mayor Warren "Bill" de Blasio and Police Commissioner William J. Bratton of New York City Fact sheet: U.S. Efforts To Assist the Nigerian Government in Its Fight Against Boko Haram October 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: Employer Progress on Recruiting and Hiring the Long-Term Unemployed Text of a joint statement by Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew and Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun L.S. Donovan on budget results for fiscal year 2014 (released by the Department of the Treasury) Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the display of the Ghazir Rug in the White House Visitor Center Fact sheet: Getting Long-Term Unemployed Americans Back to Work October 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken's travel to Iraq October 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Safeguarding Consumers' Financial Security October 19 Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on the aerial resupply of forces fighting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization near Kobani, Syria October 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz October 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Brazil Text of an Advanced Manufacturing Partnership 2.0 Steering Committee report: Accelerating U.S. Advanced Manufacturing (released by the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology) Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Actions To Further Strengthen U.S. Manufacturing Building on the Recommendations From the Final Report of the President's Advanced Manufacturing Partnership, "Accelerating U.S. Advanced Manufacturing" October 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the situation in Burkina Faso Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2014 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the U.S.-Israel Consultative Group meeting October 31 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Women's Participation in Education and the Workforce Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: Women's Participation in Education and the Workforce Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with Iraqi Yazidi leaders Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on separatist plans to hold elections in eastern Ukraine Fact sheet: Eleven Facts About American Families and Work November 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on elections held by separatists in eastern Ukraine November 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest November 5 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with United Nations Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura Fact sheet: Emergency Funding Request To Enhance the U.S. Government's Response to Ebola at Home and Abroad November 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with nongovernmental organizations working to promote human rights and democracy in Burma Text of a readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with American and Chinese advocates for human rights in China November 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on the administration's request for overseas contingency operations and deployment of additional U.S. military personnel to Iraq Statement by the Press Secretary on the Supreme Court's decision to hear the case of King v. Burwell Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's intention to nominate Loretta E. Lynch to be Attorney General Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in October Text of a statement by Pentagon Press Secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby on the President's authorization to deploy additional U.S. military personnel to Iraq (released by the Department of Defense) Text of a readout of the President's meeting with congressional leaders Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the nomination of Antony J. Blinken to be Deputy Secretary of State Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the formation of a new Government in Yemen November 9 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the situation in eastern Ukraine November 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official on Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper, Jr.'s travel to North Korea Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Names Recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom Fact sheet: The U.S.-Australia Alliance Fact sheet: Supporting American Job Growth and Strengthening Ties by Extending U.S./China Visa Validity for Tourists, Business Travelers, and Students Fact sheet: The Obama Administration Continues Its Commitment to Veterans, Service Members, and Military Families November 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and U.S. Trade Representative Michael B. Froman Fact sheet: Supporting Economic Growth at Home and Abroad by Eliminating Trade Barriers on Information Technology Products Fact sheet: 22nd Annual APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting Fact sheet: APEC Efforts To Support Emergency and Disaster Preparedness, Recovery, and Resilience Fact sheet: APEC Leaders Commit To Protect the Environment Fact sheet: Key Infrastructure Initiatives Supporting U.S. Economic Priorities Work in the G20 and APEC Fact sheet: APEC Breaks Down Barriers to Women's Economic Participation Fact sheet: Promoting Energy Security and Clean, Efficient, and Sustainable Energy Development in the APEC Region Fact sheet: Fulfilling Leaders' Instructions on Quality in Higher Education Fact sheet: APEC Leaders Agree on Actions To Promote Regional Economic Integration and Trade Fact sheet: Leading the Fight Against Corruption and Bribery Fact sheet: U.S.-China Joint Announcement on Climate Change and Clean Energy Cooperation November 12 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the U.S. presentation to the United Nations Committee against Torture Fact sheet: President Obama's Visit to China Fact sheet: U.S.-China Economic Relations November 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary on the agreement between the U.S. and India on the World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade Facilitation Statement by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on the opening of a U.S. Peace Corps program in Burma Fact sheet: 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Summit Fact sheet: U.S. Assistance to Burma November 14 Fact sheet: New Initiative To Improve Labor Rights in Burma Fact sheet: The President's Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative Fact sheet: Promoting Prosperity, Security, and Good Governance in Central America November 15 Fact sheet: United States Support for Global Efforts To Combat Carbon Pollution and Build Resilience November 16 Text of a joint media release: Australia-Japan-United States Trilateral Leaders Meeting Fact sheet: The G–20 Brisbane Summit November 17 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of Martin Salia November 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest November 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1086 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the President's meeting with Minister of the National Guard Prince Mitib bin Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia Fact sheet: ConnectED to the Future November 20 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Presents the National Medals of Science and National Medals of Technology and Innovation Fact sheet: Global Entrepreneurship Summit Fact sheet: Immigration Accountability Executive Action November 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary on Holodomor Remembrance Day Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Economic Effects of Administrative Action on Immigration Fact sheet: The Economic Benefits of Fixing Our Broken Immigration System November 22 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the terrorist attack in Mandera, Kenya November 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest November 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2014 November 26 Statement by the Press Secretary: Background on the Pardoning of the National Thanksgiving Turkey Statement by the Press Secretary on clinical trial results of a potential Ebola vaccine Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1233, H.R. 4194, S. 885, S. 898, S. 1093, S. 1499, S. 1512, S. 1934, S. 2141, S. 2539, and S. 2583 Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's telephone conversation with President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen November 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Government of Afghanistan's approval of the Afghanistan-U.S. bilateral security agreement and the NATO status of forces agreement December 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest White House report: Review: Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment Acquisition Fact sheet: Strengthening Community Policing Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the White House World AIDS Day observance December 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the terrorist attacks in Kenya White House report: 2014 Native Youth Report (embargoed until December 3) Fact sheet: Update on the Ebola Response Fact sheet: The White House Tribal Nations Conference (embargoed until December 3) December 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the fifth anniversary of Alan Gross's imprisonment in Cuba Fact sheet: 16 U.S. Communities Recognized as Climate Action Champions for Leadership on Climate Change Fact sheet: Lifting America's Game in Climate Education, Literacy, and Training (released by the Office of Science and Technology Policy) December 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: The President and First Lady's Call to Action on College Opportunity Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 129, H.R. 4067, H.R. 5441, and H.R. 5728 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on human rights in The Gambia White House report: Commitments to Action on College Opportunity White House report: College Opportunity Commitments to Action: Progress Report December 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in November December 6 Statement by Physician to the President and White House Medical Unit Director Ronny L. Jackson on the President's throat examination December 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: New Commitments To Support Computer Science Education December 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background teleconference briefing by senior administration officials on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence study of the Central Intelligence Agency's detention and interrogation program Text of a Department of Transportation report: Be TireWise: Save Money at the Pump, Increase Efficiency, and Protect Your Safety Fact sheet: Increasing Safety and Efficiency While Saving Money at the Pump December 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Economics of Early Childhood Investments Text: Playbook for Becoming an Early Learning Community Fact sheet: Invest in US: The White House Summit on Early Childhood Education December 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama Launches Competitions for New Manufacturing Innovation Hubs and American Apprenticeship Grants December 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 130 December 13 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 131 December 14 Statement by the Press Secretary on parliamentary elections in Japan December 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest December 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Protects Alaska's Bristol Bay From Future Oil and Gas Drilling Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 105, H.R. 43, H.R. 78, H.R. 451, H.R. 1391, H.R. 1707, H.R. 2112, H.R. 2203, H.R. 2223, H.R. 2366, H.R. 2678, H.R. 3085, H.R. 3375, H.R. 3534, H.R. 3682, H.R. 3957, H.R. 4189, H.R. 4443, H.R. 4812, H.R. 4919, H.R. 4924, H.R. 4939, H.R. 5030, H.R. 5106, H.R. 5108, H.R. 5681, S. 229, S. 1434, S. 2040, S. 2917, and S. 2921 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 83 Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman: The Economy in 2014 Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Economy in 2014 December 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials on changes to U.S. policy toward Cuba and the release of Alan P. Gross Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Commutations and Pardons Text of a statement by Secretary of State John F. Kerry on the President's changes to U.S. policy toward Cuba (released by the Department of State) Text of a communiqué from Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin of the Holy See (Vatican City) on the establishment of diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Cuba (released by the Holy See Press Office) Text of a statement by Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker on the President's changes to U.S. policy toward Cuba (released by the Department of Commerce) Text of a statement by Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew on the President's changes to U.S. policy toward Cuba (released by the Department of the Treasury) Text of a statement by Office of the Director of National Intelligence Public Affairs Director Brian P. Hale: Statement on the Release of a Cuban Individual (released by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence) Text of a statement by Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack on the President's changes to U.S. policy toward Cuba (released by the Department of Agriculture) Fact sheet: Charting a New Course on Cuba December 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Year in Review: Creating Economic Opportunity for All Americans in 2014 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 669, H.R. 1067, H.R. 1204, H.R. 1206, H.R. 1281, H.R. 1378, H.R. 1447, H.R. 2591, H.R. 2640, H.R. 2719, H.R. 2952, H.R. 3027, H.R. 3044, H.R. 3096, H.R. 3329, H.R. 3374, H.R. 3468, H.R. 3572, H.R. 4007, H.R. 4193, H.R. 4199, H.R. 4276, H.R. 4416, H.R. 4651, H.R. 4771, H.R. 4926, H.R. 5050, H.R. 5057, H.R. 5069, H.R. 5185, H.R. 5331, H.R. 5562, H.R. 5687, H.R. 5705, H.R. 5739, H.R. 5816, H.R. 5859, S. 1000, S. 1353, S. 1474, S. 1683, S. 1691, S. 2142, S. 2270, S. 2338, S. 2444, S. 2519, S. 2521, S. 2651, S. 2759, and S. 3008 Text of a statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the appointment of Avril D. Haines as Deputy National Security Adviser Fact sheet: Task Force on 21st Century Policing December 19 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1068, H.R. 2754, H.R. 2901, H.R. 3608, H.R. 3979, H.R. 4030, H.R. 4681, H.R. 5462, H.R. 5771, and S. 2673 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the 25th anniversary of the fall of communism in Romania December 22 Statement by the Press Secretary: Year of Action: A Final Progress Report on the Obama Administration's Actions To Help Create Opportunity for All Americans Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Tunisia Text of a White House report: Year of Action: A Final Progress Report on the Obama Administration's Actions To Help Create Opportunity for All Americans December 23 Statement by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric Schultz on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruling regarding the President's executive actions on immigration Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2014 Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Economy in 2014 December 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on the crash of AirAsia Flight 8501 