Administration of Barack Obama, 2014 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2014 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 2 In the morning, the President traveled from his vacation residence in Kailua, HI, to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, where he played golf with Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand, Prime Minister Key's son Max, and White House Trip Director Marvin D. Nicholson, Jr. He and Prime Minister Key also discussed New Zealand-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, the President returned to Kailua, HI. January 3 The White House announced that the President will return to Washington, DC, on January 4. January 4 In the evening, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. January 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm on December 5 and 6, 2013. January 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in an interview with David Remnick for the New Yorker magazine. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. January 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to wish her a speedy recovery following her recent injury and congratulate her on the formation of a new Cabinet. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Biden met with the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Situation Room, they met with leaders of the intelligence community. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2013 National Basketball Association champion Miami Heat to the White House on January 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher P. Lu to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael W. Kempner to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President announced his intention to nominate Wes Moore and Heidi Biggs to be members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert D. Alverson, James W. Balsiger, and Donald R. Lane as U.S. Commissioners of the International Pacific Halibut Commission.   January 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with Members of Congress to discuss the administration's ongoing review of signals intelligence and electronic surveillance programs. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury, Jacob J. Lew.  The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah L. Birx to be Ambassador at Large and Coordinator of U.S. Government Activities To Combat HIV/AIDS Globally at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Suzette Kimball to be Director of the U.S. Geological Survey at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to appoint Jerilyn Mendoza as a member of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation.  January 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Coupe restaurant, the President had lunch with Anne Johnson, Andres Cruz, Jasmine Hicks, Tommy McFly, and David Dimock to discuss health insurance reforms and thank them for their efforts to raise awareness about the importance of young people enrolling for health insurance coverage in the new marketplaces. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Head Coach John "Jimbo" Fisher of the Florida State University football team to congratulate him on his team's victory in the BCS Championship. The President announced his intention to nominate Stanley Fischer to be Vice Chairman and a Governor on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The President announced his intention to nominate Lael Brainard and Jerome H. Powell to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The President declared an emergency in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts resulting from a chemical spill beginning on January 9 and continuing. January 12 The President announced the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the state funeral of former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel in Jerusalem, Israel, on January 13: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); Daniel Shapiro; Eliot L. Engel; Deborah Wasserman Schultz; and Daniel Kurtzer. January 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss Mexico-U.S. trade, reform efforts in Mexico, and the upcoming North American Leaders' Summit in Toluca, Mexico. The White House announced that the President will travel to Raleigh, NC, on January 15. The White House announced that the President will travel to Toluca, Mexico, on February 19 to participate in the North American Leaders' Summit. January 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with the Executive Committee of the National Governors Association to discuss efforts to strengthen the national economy, improve education, and reduce unemployment. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Maria Shriver to discuss the most recent Shriver Report, "A Woman's Nation Pushes Back From the Brink." January 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Raleigh, NC. Then, he traveled to Durham, NC, where at a Vacon Inc. facility, he toured research and development operations with Vacon Vice President of Research and Development Dan Isaksson and Secretary of Energy Ernest J. Moniz. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Raleigh, NC. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the East Room, the President met with the Senate Democratic Caucus. The President designated the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado as President of Honduras in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, on January 27: Thomas E. Perez (head of delegation); Lisa Kubiske; Roberta S. Jacobson; and Ricardo Zuniga. January 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Syria, reconciliation efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan, the peace process in Northern Ireland, and the ongoing review of U.S. signals intelligence and electronic surveillance programs. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to nominate Nina Hachigian to be U.S. Representative to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Shamina Singh and Rick Christman to be a members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew H. Tueller to be Ambassador to the Republic of Yemen. The President announced his intention to nominate Gustavo Velasquez to be Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced that he has nominated Stephen R. Bough to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Richard F. Boulware II to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has nominated Salvador Mendoza, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Washington. The President announced that he has nominated Staci M. Yandle to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans: Angela Glover Blackwell; Barbara T. Bowman; Gwendolyn E. Boyd; Walter G. Bumphus; James P. Comer; Al Dotson, Jr.; Akosua Barthwell Evans; Jim Freeman; Sharon J. Lettman-Hicks; Michael L. Lomax; Bryant T. Marks; Robert K. Ross; Doris A. Smith-Ribner; Ronald A. Williams; and TyKiah R. Wright. The President declared a major disaster exists in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding from October 27 through 28, 2013. January 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the Oval Office, he met with Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes to prepare for his remarks on U.S. signals intelligence and electronic surveillance programs. In the afternoon, following his remarks at the Department of Justice, the President dropped by the overflow room and thanked Department of Justice staff for their service. Then, in the Map Room, he taped an interview with Claus Kleber of ZDF German Television for later broadcast. January 20 In the afternoon, at DC Central Kitchen, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia participated in a service project to promote voluntarism on Martin Luther King, Jr., Day. White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett also participated in the event. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, Cabinet Secretaries, and senior administration officials participated in community service projects and events in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr. January 21 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Syria, the Joint Plan of Action to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons, security preparations for the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia-U.S. relations. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, and the Vatican City (Holy See) from March 24 through 27. The White House announced that the United States will host the first U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in Washington, DC, on August 5 and 6. January 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with select Cabinet Secretaries of the White House Council on Women and Girls and senior administration officials. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting between Vice President Biden and Speaker of the Council of Representatives of Iraq Usama al-Nujayfi. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan to prepare for his State of the Union Address. January 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes to prepare for his State of the Union Address. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from November 5 through 14, 2013. January 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President taped a video message on the observance of Lunar New Year message for broadcast on January 31. During the day, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan and Senior Adviser H. Daniel Pfeiffer to prepare for his State of the Union Address. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan to prepare for his State of the Union Address. The President announced that he has named David M. Simas as Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach. The President announced that he has named Broderick Johnson as Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary. The President announced that he has named Amy J. Brundage as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Communications Director. The President announced that he has named Anne E. Wall as Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs and Senate Liaison. The President announced that he has named Amy Rosenbaum as Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. January 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen to discuss democracy efforts in Yemen, counterterrorism and security cooperation, and Yemen-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Lanham, MD, and West Mifflin, PA, on January 29. The White House announced that the President will travel to Waukesha, WI, and Nashville, TN, on January 30. January 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. January 29 In the morning, the President traveled to Lanham, MD, where he toured  Costco Wholesale Corporation's Woodmore Towne Centre Warehouse and met with employees. Later, he traveled to West Mifflin, PA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in West Mifflin, PA, the President toured the U.S. Steel Corporation Mon Valley Works—Irvin Plant with U.S. Steel President and Chief Executive Officer Mario Longhi, Vice President of Engineering and Research and Development Anthony R. Bridge, Irvin Plant Manager Amy Smith-Yoder, United Steelworkers (USW) International President Leo W. Gerard, and USW Local 2227 President Kevin McKelvey. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown, Jr., of California to discuss the drought affecting California and Federal Government response efforts. The White House announced that the President will meet with King Abdullah II of Jordan at Sunnylands Estate in Rancho Mirage, CA, on February 14. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storms from December 20 through 26, 2013. January 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Waukesha, WI, where he toured General Electric Company's Gas Engines Plant with Lorraine Bolsinger, president and chief executive officer, and Jim Flemming, plant manager and global supply chain manager, General Electric Power and Water's Distributed Power. Later, also at the General Electric plant, he participated in a television interview with Jake Tapper of CNN's "The Lead" program. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Nashville, TN, where, at McGavock Comprehensive High School, he met with the family of Kevin Barbee, a student who was killed in a shooting on January 29. He also met with former Vice President Albert A. Gore, Jr., and actor Ashley T. Judd. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Miranda A.A. Ballentine to be Assistant Secretary for Installations, Environment, and Logistics at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Norman C. Bay to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment, to designate him as Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate L. Reginald Brothers, Jr., to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate William P. Doyle to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Ann E. Dunkin to be Assistant Administrator for Environmental Information at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Manuel H. Ehrlich, Jr., to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Mileydi Guilarte to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director at the Inter-American Development Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate Suzan G. LeVine to be Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. McCord to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller). The President announced his intention to nominate Brian P. McKeon to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Christine E. Wormuth to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. The President announced his intention to appoint Theodore B. Olson as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced his intention to appoint Nathalie Rayes as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm on December 5 and 6, 2013. January 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the State Dining Room, they met with chief executive officers and other leaders to discuss best practices for hiring the long-term unemployed. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in a Google+ Hangouts virtual road trip across the country to discuss his State of the Union Address. February 2 In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in a live television interview with Bill O'Reilly of FOX News for the FOX Super Bowl XLVIII pregame show. February 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa of Tunisia to congratulate him and the Tunisian people on the ratification of a new constitution and formation of an interim government and discuss Tunisia-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with 2013 Enrico Fermi Award recipients Allen J. Bard and Andrew Sessler. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid. The White House announced that the President will travel to Adelphi, MD, on February 4. The White House announced that the President will travel to Saudi Arabia in March. February 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Pete Carroll of the National Football League's Seattle Seahawks to congratulate him on his team's victory in Super Bowl XLVIII. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Department of Defense leadership to discuss U.S. military operations in Afghanistan.  Later in the afternoon, in the East Room, the President and Vice President Biden participated in a roundtable discussion with members of the House Democratic Caucus to discuss the national economy and job creation. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President received an update on U.S. cooperation with Russia to ensure the security and safety of U.S. athletes, delegates, and other citizens attending the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia. In the evening, in the Grand Foyer, the President hosted a reception for members of the House Democratic Caucus. The White House announced that the President will travel to East Lansing, MI, on February 7. The White House announced that President Obama and President François Hollande of France will travel to Charlottesville, VA, on February 10, where they will tour Monticello, the residence of former President Thomas Jefferson.  February 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, at Nationals Park, the President met with Senators attending the Senate Democratic Issues Conference. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia on February 7: Janet A. Napolitano (head of delegation); Michael A. McFaul; Robert L. Nabors II; Brian A. Boitano; and Caitlin Cahow. The President announced his intention to nominate Beth Bloom and Darrin P. Gayles to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul G. Byron and Carlos E. Mendoza to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced his intention to nominate Cheryl A. Krause to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.  February 6 In the afternoon, in the Library, the President taped an interview with Bob Costas of NBC Sports for later broadcast. The President declared an emergency in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on February 4 and continuing. February 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to East Lansing, MI. In the afternoon, on the campus of Michigan State University, the President and Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack toured the Michigan Biotechnology Institute and visited with employees. Then, he had lunch with Mayor Michael E. Duggan of Detroit. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President taped an interview with Madd Hatta of KBXX's "Madd Hatta Morning Show" in Houston, TX. The White House released further details on President Obama and President François Hollande of France's visit to Charlottesville, VA, on February 10.  The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the 2014 Paralympic Games in Sochi, Russia, on March 7: L. Tammy Duckworth (head of delegation); Kathy Martinez; Celeste A. Wallander; Anthony Robles; Sandra Kukat; and Brian Mosteller. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Green to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert O. Work to be Deputy Secretary of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Cassandra Q. Butts to be Ambassador to the Bahamas. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew T. McGuire to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. February 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he welcomed  President François Hollande of France upon his arrival. Then, he and President Hollande traveled to Charlottesville, VA, where they toured Monticello, the residence of former President Thomas Jefferson.  In the evening, the President and President Hollande returned to Washington, DC. February 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with President François Hollande of France. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an expanded bilateral meeting with President Hollande.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted President Hollande of France upon his arrival for a state dinner and reception.  Then, on the Grand Staircase, he and Mrs. Obama participated in a photo opportunity with President Hollande.  The President declared an emergency in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from a severe winter storm beginning on February 10 and continuing. The White House announced that the President will host a "My Brother's Keeper" initiative event on February 13. The White House announced that the President will travel to Fresno, CA, on February 14. February 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  an update on the severe winter weather pattern moving through the southern States. The White House announced will travel to Rancho Mirage, CA, on February 14 to meet with King Abdullah II of Jordan at the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, and the Philippines in late April. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on March 3. The President announced his intention to nominate Todd A. Batta to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Cancian to be Assistant Secretary for Children and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Julia A. Clark to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.  The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria Reggie Kennedy to be a Governor on the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to nominate D. Nathan Sheets to be Under Secretary for International Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Sobel to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund. The President announced his intention to nominate Francis X. Taylor to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Juan Carlos Iturregui, Roberta S. Jacobson, and Annette Taddeo-Goldstein to be members of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate R. Jane Chu to be Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. The President declared an emergency in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from a severe winter storm beginning on February 10 and continuing. February 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Library, the President taped an interview with sports announcer and former National Basketball Association player Charles Barkley of TNT's "Inside the NBA" program for later broadcast. Later, he gave Mr. Barkley a personal tour of the Oval Office. February 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Cambridge, MD. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fresno, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy to express his personal gratitude for the Prime Minister's leadership and discuss Italy-U.S. relations. Then, upon arrival, aboard Marine One, he traveled to. Later, en route to Firebaugh, CA, aboard Marine One, he viewed drought damage in the central valley of California with Rep. Jim Costa and Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer.   In the evening, the President traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA, where at the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands, he welcomed King Abdullah II of Jordan. Later, he and King Abdullah had a working dinner. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the closing ceremony of the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia, on February 23: William J. Burns (head of delegation); Michael A. McFaul; Billie Jean King; Bonnie Blair; and Eric Heiden. The President announced his intention to nominate Todd Sunhwae Kim to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. February 15 The White House announced that the President will return to Washington, DC, on February 17. February 16 The White House announced that the President will travel to Upper Marlboro, MD, on February 18. February 17 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. February 18 In the morning, the President traveled to Upper Marlboro, MD. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Japanese American veterans of World War II to congratulate them on their Congressional Gold Medal and thank them for their service. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with African American civil rights leaders to discuss criminal justice reform, income inequality, and the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Later, in the Family Theater, he hosted a screening of the film "The Monuments Men" for castmembers, crew, and officials from the Cultural Heritage Center. February 19 In the morning, the President traveled to Toluca, Mexico, arriving in the afternoon. Upon arrival at theInternational Airport of Toluca, the President signed Executive Order 13659 to streamline the export-import process for U.S. small businesses. Then, also at the International Airport of Toluca, he participated in an official arrival ceremony. Later, he traveled to the Palacio de Gobierno of the State of Mexico, where he was greeted by President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico. Then, in the Governor's office, he had a meeting with President Peña Nieto. Later in the afternoon, at the Cosmovitral, the President participated in a photo opportunity with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada and President Peña Nieto of Mexico, followed by a working lunch. Then, also at the Cosmovitral, he walked in the botanical gardens with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper and President Peña Nieto, followed by a meeting with Prime Minister Harper. Later, he traveled to the Palacio de Justicia of the State of Mexico, where he participated in a trilateral meeting of the North American Leaders' Summit. Then, he walked to the Palacio de Gobierno. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Syria, other regional issues, and Turkey-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. February 20 In the morning, the President sent a tweet to Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada placing a bet on the success of the U.S. men's and women's hockey teams at the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine. February 21 In the morning, in the Map Room, the President met with Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Ukraine and other global issues. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to 24 Army veterans in recognition of their valor during combat in World War II, the Korean war, and the Vietnam war on March 18. February 23 The White House announced that the President will travel to St. Paul, MN, on February 26. February 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to congratulate him on his election victory, discuss Italy-U.S. cooperation in Afghanistan and Libya, and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership negotiations. Also during the day, the President met with Gov. Janice K. Brewer of Arizona, Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, Gov. Gary R. Herbert of Utah, Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado, Gov. John A. Kitzhaber of Oregon, Gov. Jay R. Inslee of Washington, Gov. Matthew H. Mead of Wyoming, Gov. Brian E. Sandoval of Nevada, and administration officials to discuss the increasing frequency and severity of droughts, wildfires, and other extreme weather events; the Federal Government's natural disaster preparedness, response, and recovery efforts; proposed changes to wildfire suppression funding in the President's upcoming budget; and the effects of climate change..  Also during the day, the President had a teleconference call with State and local officials from around the country to discuss efforts to improve enrollment using health insurance exchanges. In the Diplomatic Reception Room, he also taped an interview with Zach Galifianakis of Funny or Die's "Between Two Ferns" program for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President will host an event to announce new manufacturing innovation institutes on February 25. The White House announced that the President will host an event on the "My Brother's Keeper" initiative on February 27. February 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss preparations for Afghanistan's upcoming elections, reconciliation efforts, and the Afghanistan-U.S. bilateral security agreement. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner. The White House announced that the President will host a student film festival to promote the expansion of Internet access and educational technology in schools. The President announced the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend Nigeria's Centenary Celebration on February 27 and 28: Thomas A. Shannon, Jr. (head of delegation); and James F. Entwistle. February 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to St. Paul, MN, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in St. Paul, MN, the President and Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx toured the Metro Transit Light Rail Operations and Maintenance Facility and met with employees. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert W. Holleyman II to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to nominate Lisa S. Disbrow to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Management at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura Junor to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Kornbluh to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President announced his intention to appoint Leslie Meyers as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Janet Hill and Michael Lombardo as members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Rose K. Schlossberg and Susan S. Sher as general trustees of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint John W. Rogers, Jr., as Chair of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. The President announced his intention to appoint José Cisneros as Vice Chair of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans: Theodore J. Beck; Sherry S. Black; John H. Bryant; Anna Maria Chávez; Kerry N. Doi; Ted Gonder; Richard G. Ketchum; Beth Kobliner; Kilandigalu "Kay" M. Madati; Marc H. Morial; Carol E. Quillen; Amy Rosen; and Charles W. Scharf. The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph J. Echevarria, Jr., as a member of the President's Export Council. The President announced that he has nominated Robin L. Rosenberg to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. February 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President met with foundation and business leaders, elected officials, and administration officials to discuss the "My Brother's Keeper" initiative. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to the White House on March 17. February 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Capitol Hilton hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. March 1 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Ukraine and express his concern over Russia's intervention in Ukraine. He also had separate telephone conversations with President François Hollande of France and Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to discuss the situation in Ukraine and pledge continued U.S. support for democratic reforms and economic stabilization in Ukraine.   March 2 In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss Russia's intervention in Ukraine and affirm continued U.S. support for security cooperation and democracy efforts in Eastern Europe. The White House announced that the President will travel to New Britain, CT, on March 5. March 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to discuss U.A.E.-U.S. relations. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting between Vice President Biden and Prime Minister Iurie Leanca of Modova. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA on March 5. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, at Powell Elementary School, he toured classrooms and visited with teachers and students.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine. In the evening, the President traveled to McLean, Virginia. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. March 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to New Britain, CT, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Ukraine, Russia's intervention in Ukraine, and their continued support of the interim Ukrainian Government.  In the afternoon, while en route to Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, CT, the President stopped for lunch and greeted patrons at Café Beauregard, where he was joined by Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, Gov. Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts, Gov. Lincoln D. Chafee of Rhode Island, and Gov. Peter E. Shumlin of Vermont.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Miami, FL, on March 7. March 6 In the morning, at the Newseum, the President participated in a town hall meeting on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's benefits for Latinos.  In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss Russia's intervention in Ukraine and efforts to resolve the situation diplomatically. During the day, the President had a meeting with his national security team. Later, he stopped by a meeting with YouTube users to discuss strategies for raising awareness about the importance of health insurance enrollment. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss the situation in Ukraine and Japan-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to nominate Nani A. Coloretti to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Estevan R. Lopez to be Commissioner of Reclamation at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Erika L. Moritsugu to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Monica C. Regalbuto to be Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew H. Schapiro to be Ambassador to the Czech Republic. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas R. Lamont as a member of the American Battle Monuments Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Alan B. Lazowski as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Latifa A. Lyles as Director of the Women's Bureau at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan Athey, John T. Cacioppo, and Sharon R. Long as members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from February 10 through 14. March 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the State Dining Room, the President welcomed 2014 Intel Science Talent Search finalists and participated in a group photograph. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Miami, FL. Later, they traveled to Key Largo, FL.  Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012–2013 NCAA champion student athletes on March 10. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Michelle Bachelet Jeria as President of Chile in Santiago, Chile, on March 11: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); Michael A. Hammer; and Roberta S. Jacobson. March 8 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with, Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, and Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the situation in Ukraine. He also participated in a conference call with President Andris Berzins of Latvia, President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania, and President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia to discuss the situation in Ukraine and reaffirm U. S. support for democracy in the Baltic States and regional security issues in cooperation within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia would return to Washington, DC, on March 9.  March 9 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss the situation in Ukraine and China-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Arsenii Yatseniuk of Ukraine. March 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S.: Mhamed Ezzine Chelaifa of Tunisia, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar of India, Jalil Abbas Jilani of Pakistan, Rupa Abraham Mulina of Papua New Guinea, Johan Cecilia Verbeke of Belgium, and Mohammed Jaham A.A. Al Kuwari of Qatar. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy Brey of Spain and President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan to discuss the situation in Ukraine. Also in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a conference call with members of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships and community leaders across the country who are working to enroll people in health care coverage by the March 31 deadline. March 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, where, at the East 42d and Third Avenue Gap Inc. store, he purchased gifts for his family. Then, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to 24 Army veterans in recognition of their valor during combat in World War II, the Korean war, and the Vietnam war on March 18.  The President announced his intention to appoint Andrew Jackson as Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of Education. The President announced that he has nominated Leslie J. Abrams to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia. The President announced that he has appointed Robert J. Glovsky and Deanna M. Mulligan as members of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. March 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President met with advocates working to raise public awareness of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he participated in an interview with Lisa Zamosky of WebMD Health Corp. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland on March 14. The President declared a major disaster in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm from February 10 through 14. March 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew.  During the day, in the Oval Office, he met with Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chairman Ruben Hinojosa, CHC Immigration Task Force Chair Luis Gutierrez, and House Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra to discuss immigration reform.  Also during the day, in the East Room, the President met with student delegates from the 52d Annual U.S. Senate Youth Program. The President announced his intention to nominate Judith M. Davenport to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The President announced his intention to nominate Brad R. Huther to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Peter C. Groff as a member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Joyce A. Mader as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Horacio Rodiles as a member of the U.S. section of the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint John E. Huerta, Barry W. Karas, and Ronnie Planalp as members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced that he has nominated John W. deGravelles to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Deirdre M. Daly to be U.S. attorney for the District of Connecticut. The President announced that he has nominated James W.F. Green to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Ronald L. Miller to be U.S. marshal for the District of Kansas. March 14 In the afternoon, in the Rayburn Room at the U.S. Capitol, the President, Vice President Joe Biden, and Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland attended a Congressional Friends of Ireland luncheon. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson, and senior advisers met with organizations advocating for immigration reform. March 16 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss Russia's intervention in Ukraine and efforts to resolve the situation diplomatically. March 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President had a working lunch with President Abbas. Later, he traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and presented a Purple Heart to a servicemember. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. March 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss Russia's intervention in Ukraine and efforts to resolve the situation diplomatically. Then, in the Map Room, he taped separate interviews with ESPN's Andy Katz and Rebecca R. Lobo-Rushin for later broadcast. In the afternoon, in the Gallatin Room of the Jefferson hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee event. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando and Miami, FL, on March 20. March 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Room, the President taped separate interviews with Alison King of NECN in Newton, MA; Mike Bush of KSDK in Saint Louis, MO; Julie Nelson of KARE in Minneapolis, MN; Clarice Tinsley of KDFW in Dallas, TX; Mark Mullen of NBC 7 in San Diego, CA; and Catherine Anaya of KPHO in Phoenix, AZ. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President participated in a satellite interview with Ellen L. Degeneres of NBC's "Ellen" program.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa of Tunisia to the White House on April 4. March 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken, White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients, and Secretary of the Treasury, Jacob J. Lew to discuss sanctions against Russia. Then, he traveled to Orlando, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Valencia College, West Campus, where, in classroom 8–120, he participated in a roundtable discussion with college students and local workers. Later, he traveled to Miami, FL, where he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the next morning. The President announced his intention to appoint Joshua M. Javits as Chair of Presidential Emergency Board No. 245. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth C. Wesman and M. David Vaughn as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 245. The President announced his intention to appoint Patrick D. Cannon; Howard A. Rosenblum; and Deborah A. Ryan as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Gary Blumenthal, Ari Néeman, and Clyde E. Terry as members of the National Council on Disability. March 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with leading information technology company chief executive officers W. Reed Hastings, Jr., of Netflix, Andrew W. Houston of Dropbox, Alexander C. Karp of Palantir, Aaron W. Levie of Box, Eric E. Schmidt of Google, and Mark E. Zuckerberg of Facebook  to discuss intelligence, technology, and privacy issues. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tamam Salam of Lebanon to congratulate him on the formation of his cabinet, the situation in Syria, and Lebanon-U.S. relations. March 23 In the evening, the President traveled to Amsterdam, Netherlands, arriving the following morning. March 24 In the morning, in Amsterdam, Netherlands, the President visited the Rijksmuseum, where he signed the guest book and toured the museum with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands, Mayor Eberhard van der Laan of Amsterdam, and Rijksmuseum General Director Wim Pijbes. Later, he traveled to The Hague, Netherlands. In the afternoon, at the World Forum in The Hague, the President attended the opening session of the Nuclear Security Summit. Later, also at the World Forum, he participated in the first plenary discussion of the Nuclear Security Summit, followed by a scenario-based policy discussion. In the evening, at Catshuis, the official residence of the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, the President attended a Group of Seven (G–7) leaders meeting on the situation in Ukraine. Later, he traveled to Amsterdam, Netherlands, where, at the Royal Palace, he participated in a reception and photographic opportunity with the attending leaders of the Nuclear Security Summit and King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands. Then, also at the Royal Palace, he had a working dinner with King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands.  Later in the evening, the President traveled to the Grand Hotel Huis ter Duin in Noordsijk, Netherlands, where he remained overnight. The President announced that he has appointed Douglas M. Brooks as Director of the Office of National AIDS Policy. The President declared an emergency in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from flooding and mudslides beginning on March 22 and continuing. March 25 In the morning, the President traveled to The Hague, Netherlands, where, at the U.S. Ambassador's residence, he met with President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan. Later, at the World Forum, he attended the leaders-only plenary session of the Nuclear Security Summit. In the afternoon, at the World Forum, the President participated in the official Nuclear Security Summit leaders family photograph. Then, also at the World Forum, he attended a working lunch with plenary discussion, followed by the third plenary discussion. Later, at the U.S. Ambassador's residence, he met with Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces. During the day, at the Gemeentemuseum Den Haag, the President was briefed by White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the mudslide in Oso, WA. Also during the day, at the U.S. Ambassador's residence, he had a pull-aside meeting with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. In the evening, at the U.S. Ambassador's residence, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Later, he traveled to Brussels, Belgium. Upon arrival, he traveled to The Hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2013 World Series Champion Boston Red Sox to the White House on April 1. March 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Waregem, Belgium, where, at Flanders Field American Cemetery and Memorial, he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony and toured the grounds. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Brussels, Belgium, where, at the Council of the European Union, he was greeted by European Commission President José Manuel Durão Barroso and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy. Then, also at the Council of the European Union, he attended a working lunch at the European Union-U.S. Summit. Later, at The Hotel, he met with personnel and families of the U.S. Tri-Mission to Belgium, the European Union, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In the evening, the President traveled to Rome, Italy. Upon arrival, he traveled to the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will welcome members of the 2014 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic teams to the White House on April 3. March 27 In the morning, the President traveled to the Vatican, where he had an audience and exchanged gifts with Pope Francis. Later, he met with Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin of the Holy See (Vatican City). In the afternoon, the President traveled to Rome, Italy, where, at the Quirinal Palace, he participated in a restricted bilateral meeting with President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy, followed by an expanded bilateral meeting and a working lunch. Later, at the Villa Madama, he met with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy. Also at the Villa Madama, he received a telephone briefing from Senior Communications Adviser Tara D. McGuinness on the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later in the afternoon, the President toured the Colosseum with Colosseum Technical Director and Architect Barbara Nazzaro.  In the evening, at the U.S. Ambassador to Italy's residence in Rome, the President met with personnel and families of the U.S. Tri-Mission to Italy, the Holy See, and the U.N. Agencies in Rome. Later, also at the U.S. Ambassador's residence, he had dinner with U.S. Ambassador to Italy John R. Philips and his wife Linda Douglass, architect Renzo Piano, physicist Fabiola Gianotti, Fiat chairman John Elkann and his sister Ginevra, and A.S. Roma chief executive Italo Zanzi. Later in the evening, also at the U.S. Ambassador's residence, the President participated in a conference call with health care navigators and volunteers to discuss enrollment in health insurance exchanges under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The President announced his intention to nominate Dean A. Reuter to be to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Sembler to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The President announced his intention to nominate Elliot F. Kaye to be Commissioner and Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Alfonso E. Lenhardt to be Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Struyk Millsaps to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to appoint David S. Blitzstein as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael L. Corbat as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan Forster-Cox as a member of the U.S. Section of the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission. March 28 In the morning, at the U.S. Embassy in Rome, Italy, the President participated in a television interview with Scott Pelley of CBS's "Evening News" program. Later, he traveled to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. While en route aboard Air Force One, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Philip H. Gordon, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes. In the afternoon, upon arrival in Riyadh, the President traveled to Rawdat Khuraim, Saudi Arabia. In the evening, at the royal compound in Rawdat Khuraim, the President met with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Joseph W. Westphal, and White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Philip H. Gordon also attended. Later, he traveled to the Ritz-Carlton, Riyadh hotel in Riyadh, where he remained overnight. Also in the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the U.S. proposal for a diplomatic resolution to the situation in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Government's constitutional and democratic reform efforts, the Russian military buildup along the Ukraine-Russia border, and U.S. opposition to previous Russian actions concerning the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Spain to attend the state funeral of former President Adolfo Suarez Gonzalez of Spain on March 31: Raymond E. Mabus, Jr. (head of delegation); D. Robert Graham; and James Costos. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Rwanda to attend the 20th commemoration of the Rwandan genocide on April 7: Samantha Power (head of delegation); Donald W. Koran; Karen R. Bass; Linda Thomas-Greenfield; Stephen J. Rapp; Russell L. Feingold; Michael J. Gerson; and Christine Hjelt. March 29 In the morning, at the Ritz-Carlton, Riyadh hotel, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and families. Later, he traveled to Ramstein Air Force Base, Germany, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President visited with wounded U.S. servicemembers. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. March 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will travel to Ann Arbor, MI, on April 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on April 2. The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm on March 6 and 7. April 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President received an update on the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act from health care policy consultant Philip M. Schiliro, Senior Communications Adviser Tara D. McGuinness, Principal Deputy Director of Public Engagement Marlon Marshall, Deputy Assistant to the President for Health Policy Jeanne M. Lambrew, White House Chief of Staff Adviser Kristie A. Canegallo, and White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett. April 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Ann Arbor, MI, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, MI, the President had lunch with Rep. Gary C. Peters and participated in a roundtable discussion with University of Michigan student Mira Friedlander, Detroit, MI, waitress Aisha Thurman, and Warren, MI, food server Graham Kovich on efforts to raise the Federal minimum wage. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, where at Chicago Cut Steakhouse, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, also at the Chicago Cut Steakhouse, he participated in a photographic opportunity with members of the Chicago Fire and Police Departments. Then, also at the Chicago Cut Steakhouse, he had dinner with Mayor Rahm I. Emanuel of Chicago, IL, and former White House Senior Adviser David M. Axelrod.  Also at the Chicago Cut Steakhouse, he was updated on the shootings at Fort Hood, TX, by Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Adm. James A. "Sandy" Winnefeld, Jr., USN. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a teleconference briefing with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, USA, Army Chief of Staff Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, USA, Federal Bureau of Investigation Deputy Director Mark F. Giuliano, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, and Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II to discuss the shootings at Fort Hood, TX, and ongoing investigation efforts. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding and mudslides beginning on March 22 and continuing. April 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the President's recent trip to Europe and the situation in Ukraine. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven Cohen to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas P. Kelly III to be Ambassador to Djibouti.  The President announced his intention to nominate Jane Nishida to be Assistant Administrator for International and Tribal Affairs at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Sunil Sabharwal to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund. The President announced his intention to nominate Gordon O. Tanner to be General Counsel at the Department of the Air Force.  President announced his intention to appoint Karen L. Braitmayer as a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board. President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Council on Disability: Janice Lehrer-Stein; Benro T. Ogunyipe; Katherine D. Seelman; and Royal P. Walker, Jr. The President announced that he has nominated André Birotte, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Randolph D. Moss to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. April 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. In the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa of Tunisia met with 10 Tunisian undergraduates studying in the United States as part of the Thomas Jefferson Scholarship Program. Later, in the East Room, he hosted a reception for Greek Independence Day. Vice President Biden also attended. The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the severe winter storm from February 6 through 10. April 5 The White House announced that the President will travel to Bladensburg, MD, on April 7. April 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Bladensburg, MD, where at Bladensburg High School, he toured a science classroom and visited with teachers and students. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with William A. Thien, commander-in-chief, and Robert E. Wallace, executive director, of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with the inaugural members of the Presidential Ambassadors for Global Entrepreneurship (PAGE) and PAGE Chair, Secretary of CommercePenny S. Pritzker. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Houston, TX, on April 9. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Fort Hood, TX, on April 9. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Austin, TX, on April 10. April 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. April 9 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Killeen, TX, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, upon arrival at Robert Gray Army Airfield, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Fort Hood, TX. Later, they traveled to Houston, TX. Upon arrival at George H.W. Bush Intercontinental Airport, they were greeted by former President George H.W. Bush. Then, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to a private residence, where he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. During the day, the President was updated on the stabbings at Franklin Regional Senior High School in Murrysville, PA. In the evening, the President traveled to the Crowne Plaza Houston-Downtown hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to New York City on April 11. April 10 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Austin, TX, where, at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Library, they, Rep. John R. Lewis, and LBJ Presidential Library Director Mark K. Updegrove viewed an exhibit commemorating the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and former President Johnson's role in the civil rights movement. Later, also at the LBJ Presidential Library, he met with Texas State Sen. Wendy Davis. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine, international concern over Russian troops on the Ukraine-Russia border, and diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. He also had a telephone conversation with Principal Ron Suvak of Franklin Regional Senior High School in Murrysville, PA, to express his concern for the students and families affected by the April 9 stabbings, thank him for his leadership, and offer Federal assistance to the school community. The President announced his intention to nominate William "Bro" Adams to be Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. Speer to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Management at the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan N. Stivers to be Assistant Administrator of the Bureau for Asia at the U.S. Agency for International Development  The President announced his intention to nominate Ramin Toloui to be Deputy Under Secretary for International Finance at the Department of the Treasury, and upon appointment, to designate him to be Assistant Secretary for International Finance. The President announced his intention to nominate Alice G. Wells to be Ambassador to Jordan. The President announced his intention to appoint Lee T. Bycel as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Mostafa A. El-Sayed as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Stephen R. Gephard, Patrick C. Keliher, and Daniel S. Morris as Commissioners on the Council of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization. The President announced that he has nominated Nancy B. Firestone, Lydia K. Griggsby, and Thomas L. Halkowski to be judges on the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a snowstorm on February 12 and 13. April 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Beaumont, TX, resident Elbek Elibaev and his niece Sabina Johnson, who visited the White House on a Make-A-Wish foundation–sponsored trip. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC, arriving early the following morning. The White House announced that the President will present the 2013 Commander in Chief's Trophy to U.S. Naval Academy football team at the White House on April 18. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to the Holy See to attend the canonization mass of Popes John XXIII and John Paul II at the Vatican on April 27: John D. Podesta (head of delegation); Xavier Becerra; and Katherine Beirne Fallon. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm from March 2 through 4. April 14 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with members of the Global Development Council. Later, in the East Room, he welcomed recipients of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President François Hollande of France and President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, international concern over Russian troops on the Ukraine-Russia border, and diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. The White House announced that the President and Vice President Joe Biden will travel to Oakdale, PA, on April 16. The White House announced that the President will welcome Jose "Pepe" Mujica Cordano of Uruguay on May 12. April 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with faith leaders to discuss efforts to pass immigration reform legislation. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Kevin Ollie, men's basketball head coach, and Geno Auriemma, women's basketball head coach, University of Connecticut, to congratulate them on their victories in the 2013 NCAA championship games. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, they observed a moment of silence to mark the first anniversary of the Boston Marathon bombing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Seder to mark the beginning of Passover. The White House announce the President will welcome President Ismail Omar Guelleh of Djibouti on May 5. The White House announced that the President will present the Congressional Medal of Honor to Sgt. Kyle J. White, USA, on May 13. April 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the East Room, he participated in a photographic opportunity with the spring class of White House interns. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA. Then, while en route to North Fayette Township, PA, he stopped to visit with Comfort Tech band members Sean Conner, Brett White, Kevin Stripp, and Eric DiFiore, who performed an impromptu concert along the motorcade route. Later, at the Community College of Allegheny County—North Campus in North Fayette Township, PA, he, Vice President Biden, and Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker toured a classroom with mechatronics instructor Paul Blackford and visited with students.  Later in the afternoon, following his remarks at the West Hills Center in North Fayette Township, the President met with Pittsburgh, PA, resident Kimberly Francis, a self-employed cancer patient benefiting from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and her parents Judith and Michael Sparlin. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with House Republican Leader Eric I. Cantor to discuss immigration reform legislation. He also taped an interview with Major Garrett of CBS News for later broadcast. April 17 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, international concern over Russian troops on the Ukraine-Russia border, and diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Later, in the State Dining Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with representatives from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President, Vice President Biden, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, and other senior advisers met with executives from the health insurance industry. The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by ice jams and flooding from March 1 through 16. April 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later, also in the Oval Office, he  met with Daniel M. Dellinger, national commander, and Peter S. Gaytan, executive director, American Legion to discuss issues related to veterans health care, benefits, and job training assistance. The President announced his intention to appoint Larry R. Ellis as a member of the American Battle Monuments Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Howard Z. Borin and Grace Tsao-Wu as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. April 20 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended an Easter Sunday service at Nineteenth Street Baptist Church. The White House announced that the President will travel to Oso, WA, on April 22. April 21 In the morning, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in White House Easter egg roll activities. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. April 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Everett, WA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, aboard Marine One, the President, Gov. Jay R. Inslee of Washington, Sens. Maria E. Cantwell and Patricia L. Murray, and Rep. Suzan DelBene took an aerial tour of the area affected by a mudslide in Oso, WA, on March 22. Then, upon arrival in Arlington, WA, he traveled to Oso, where, at the Oso Community Chapel, he met with families of victims killed in the mudslide. Later, at the Snohomish County Fire District 25/Oso Fire Department firehouse, he met with first responders. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Tokyo, Japan, arriving the following evening. The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 5 through 9. April 23 In the evening, upon arrival in Tokyo, Japan, the President traveled to the Hotel Okura Tokyo. Then, at Sukiyabashi Jiro restaurant, he had dinner with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, U.S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline B. Kennedy, and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice. Later, he returned to the Hotel Okura Tokyo, where he remained overnight. April 24 In the morning, at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo, the President participated in an arrival ceremony, followed by an inspection of the Guard of Honor and a state call with Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko of Japan. In the afternoon, at the Akasaka Palace in Tokyo, the President met with Shigeo Iizuka and Shigeru and Sakie Yokota, relatives of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea in the 1970s. Later in the afternoon, the President toured the National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation (Miraikan) with U.S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline B. Kennedy and Miraikan Chief Executive Director Mamoru Mohri. During the tour, he watched a prerecorded video message from International Space Station Commander Koichi Wakata of Japan and Flight Engineers Steve Swanson and Rick Mastracchio of the United States. Then, he observed robotics demonstrations and met with students. Later, the President and Ambassador Kennedy toured the Meiji Jingu shrine. During the tour, he signed a prayer tablet and watched a traditional horseback archery demonstration. Then, he returned to the Hotel Okura Tokyo. In the evening, at the Imperial Palace, the President participated in an after-dinner talk following a state dinner hosted by Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko of Japan. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition: Jason Collins; Misty Copeland; Alonzo H. Mourning, Jr.; Rachael Ray; and Robert T. Shepardson. The President announced his intention to appoint Michèle Taylor as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders: N. Nina Ahmad; Michael Byun; Ravi Chaudhary; Lian Cheun; Billy Dec; Bill Imada; Kathy Ko Chin; Dee Jay Mailer; Diane Narasaki; Shekar Narasimhan; Mary Ann Young Okada; Maulik Pancholy; Linda X. Phan; and Lorna May Ho Randlett. April 25 In the morning, at the Hotel Okura Tokyo, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, also at the Hotel Okura Tokyo, he participated in a farewell greeting with Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko of Japan. Later, he traveled to Seoul, South Korea, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at the War Memorial of Korea in Seoul, the President participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. Then, he toured Gyeongbokgung Palace. Later, at the Blue House, he participated in an arrival ceremony with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea. Then, also at the Blue House, he signed the guest book and participated in an official photograph with President Park. In the evening, at the Blue House, the President participated in a working dinner with President Park. Later, he traveled to the Grand Hyatt Seoul hotel, where he participated in a conference call with President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, the steps taken by the Ukraine Government to comply with the April 17 joint statement by Ukraine, Russia, the European Union, and the U.S., and Russia's failure to support the accord. They also discussed Russia's continued escalation of the situation and agreed to coordinate efforts through the Group of Seven (G–7) and European Union to impose additional economic sanctions against Russia.  April 26 In the morning, the President traveled to the U.S. Army Garrison Yongsan in Seoul, where he and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea received a briefing from Gen. C. Michael Scaparrotti, USA, commander, U.S. Forces Korea. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Upon arrival, he traveled to Parliament Square, where, at the Parliament House, he participated in an arrival ceremony with King Abdul Halim Mu'adzam Shah and Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia. Later, he traveled to the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel in Kuala Lumpur. In the evening, the President traveled to the Istana Negara Palace. Later, he returned to the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel, where he remained overnight. April 27 In the morning, at the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel. Then, he toured the Masjid Negara (National Mosque) with Grand Imam Tan Sri Dato' Syaikh Haji Ismail Bin Haji Muhammad and tour guide Abdul Rashid bin Md Isa. Later, he traveled to the Seri Perdana, the official residence of the Prime Minister of Malaysia, where he met with Prime Minister Najib Razak and had a working lunch. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Malaysian Global Innovation and Creativity Centre in Cyberjaya, where he and Prime Minister Najib toured the center with Malaysian Treasury Secretary-General Mohd Irwan and visited with students. Later, he traveled to Kuala Lumpur. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel, where he met with civil society leaders.  April 28 In the morning, the President traveled to Manila, Philippines, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Malacanang Palace in Manila, where he participated in an arrival ceremony President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines. Then, in the Reception Hall, he signed the guest book. Later, in the State Dining Room, he attended a restricted bilateral meeting, followed by an expanded bilateral meeting with President Aquino. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. In the evening, the President traveled to the Malacanang Palace. Later, he returned to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, where he remained overnight.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Michael D. Beebe of Arkansas to receive an update on the tornadoes that struck Central Arkansas on April 27, express his condolences for the loss of life, offer Federal assistance in the recovery efforts, and commend the work of first responders. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia to the White House on June 12.  April 29 In the morning, at the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, the President inspected the City Optimized Managed Electric Transport (COMET) e-jeep on display at the hotel. Later, he traveled to Fort Bonifacio in Taguig, Philippines. Then, at the American Manila Cemetery, he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage, AK, crossing the International Date Line and arriving in the morning. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following afternoon. The White House announced that the President will honor the 2014 National Teacher of the Year and finalists on May 1. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on April 27. April 30 The White House announced that the President will travel to Poland, Belgium, and France in June. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recover efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on April 28 and continuing. May 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Sens. Patrick J. Leahy, Carl M. Levin, and Richard J. Durbin and Reps. Christopher Van Hollen and James P. McGovern to discuss negotiations to improve Cuba-U.S. relations. Vice President Joe Biden and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice also attended. The President announced his intention to nominate Tony G. Collins to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. Gordon to be Assistant Secretary for the Office of Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development for the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Cheryl A. LaFleur to be a Commissioner for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate David A. Mader to be Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management in the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate John Maeda to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey A. Murawsky to be Under Secretary for Health for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcia D. Occomy to be U.S. Director of the African Development Bank.  The President announced his intention to nominate Gentry O. Smith to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the rank of Ambassador, for the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Debra S. Wada to be Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate George A. Krol to be Ambassador to Kazakhstan. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark W. Lippert to be Ambassador to South Korea. The President announced his intention to nominate James D. Nealon to be Ambassador to Honduras. The President announced his intention to nominate Dana Shell Smith to be Ambassador to Qatar. The President announced his intention to appoint Jason W. Young as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. The President announced that he has nominated Pamela Pepper to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. May 2 In the morning, the President and Vice President Joe Biden welcomed Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to the White House. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had a bilateral meeting with Chancellor Merkel. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with Chancellor Merkel and other German and U.S. officials. Later, in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Asian American and Pacific Islander business and faith leaders to discuss immigration reform. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, winds, and flooding beginning on April 28 and continuing. May 4 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to offer his condolences for the loss of life in the May 2 landslide in Badakhshan Province and discuss international assistance and Afghan Government response efforts. May 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Luis Guillermo Solís as President of Costa Rica in San Jose, Costa Rica, on May 8: Regina McCarthy (head of delegation); Gonzalo R. Gallegos; and Francisco Palmieri. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Los Angeles area on May 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Central Arkansas on May 7. May 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Rose Garden, the President taped separate interviews with local and national meteorologists participating in the "Weather From the White House" program for later broadcast. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. During the day, in the East Room, the President greeted guests attending a Federal Judges Association reception. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Diego, CA, on May 8. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Jose, CA, on May 8. The White House announced that the President will present the Congressional Medal of Honor to former Sgt. Kyle J. White, USA, on May 13. The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 28 through May 6. May 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden visited with Tom Izzo, head coach of Michigan State University men's basketball team, and other participants in the "Hoops for Troops" leadership seminar. Later, he traveled to Little Rock, AR.  In the afternoon, about Marine One, he, Gov. Michael D. Beebe, Sen. Mark L. Pryor, and Rep. Tim Griffin took an aerial tour of the areas damaged by the tornado that struck Central Arkansas on April 27. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the evening, at the Hyatt Regency Century Plaza hotel, the President attended a University of Southern California Shoah Foundation dinner, where he was presented with the Ambassador for Humanity Award by USC trustee and filmmaker Steven Spielberg. Later, he traveled to the Beverly Hilton hotel in Beverly Hills, CA, where he remained overnight. May 8 In the morning, at the Beverly Hilton hotel, the President participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he traveled to La Jolla, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Jose, CA. Later, at a private residence, he participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he traveled to the Fairmont San Jose Hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile on June 30. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Beecroft to be Ambassador to Egypt. The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart E. Jones to be Ambassador to Iraq. The President announced his intention to nominate Lisa Mensah to be Under Secretary for Rural Development at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to appoint Rick Spinrad as Chief Scientist of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced that he has nominated Pamela Harris to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Brenda K. Sannes to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York. May 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Mountain View, CA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to appoint Julie A. Petty as Chair of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities: Peter V. Berns; Jack Martin Brandt; Kenneth Capone; Micah Fialka-Feldman; Zachary W. Holler; Lisa Pugh; Michelle C. Reynolds; Deborah M. Spitalnik; Elizabeth Weintraub; and Sheryl White-Scott. May 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to the New York City area on May 14. May 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President joined National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces President Ahmad al-Jarba to discuss the situation in Syria.  May 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City. Upon arrival, he traveled to Tarrytown, NY. Later, he returned to New York City, where, at the InterContinental New York Times Square hotel, he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. In the evening, the President traveled to the InterContinental New York Barlcay hotel, where he and Mrs. Obama remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome the Super Bowl XLVIII Champion Seattle Seahawks on May 21. The President announced his intention to nominate Victor M. Mendez to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Adler to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter M. Rogoff to be Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Ted Osius to be Ambassador to Vietnam. The President announced his intention to nominate Joan A. Polaschik to be Ambassador to Algeria. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas J. Reese and Eric P. Schwartz as members of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. May 15 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama toured the National September 11 Memorial & Museum with former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City and his companion Diana L. Taylor, former President William J. Clinton, and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. May 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Abdullah Gul of Turkey to express his condolences for the loss of life due to a coal mine accident in Soma, Turkey, on May 13 and offer U.S. assistance. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the situations in Ukraine and Nigeria and the upcoming conference in Paris on improving regional cooperation to combat the terrorist threat posed by Boko Haram. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi of India to congratulate him on his party's victory in parliamentary elections, discuss India-U.S. relations, and invite Prime Minister-elect Modi to visit Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office,  Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later, in the East Room, he met with families of the plaintiffs in the Brown v. Board of Education U.S. Supreme Court case, as well as members of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund and two lead attorneys in the case, Jack Greenberg and William Coleman. May 17 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to thank him for his leadership, discuss India-U.S. relations, and offer his continued support under Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi. May 19 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch with combatant commanders. Later, he traveled to Potomac, MD. While en route, he stopped at Friendship Park in the Cathedral Heights neighborhood, where he visited with members of the Northwest Little League baseball teams and threw the first pitch of the game. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will host a signing event for the proclamation establishing the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument in New Mexico on May 21 at the Department of the Interior. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to Cpl. William "Kyle" Carpenter, USMC, on June 19. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand on June 20. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Salvador Sanchéz Cerén as President of El Salvador in San Salvador, El Salvador, on June 1: Maria Contreras-Sweet (head of delegation); Mari del Carmen Aponte; Thomas A. Shannon, Jr.; Ricardo Zuniga; and John D. Feeley. The President announced his intention to nominate Geoffrey W. Crawford to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Vermont.  The President announced that he has appointed Jennifer Yeager Kaplan as Director of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. May 20 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business leaders from around the country and world to discuss trade and investment opportunities under the Department of Commerce's SelectUSA initiative.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in an interview with Maggie Murphy and Lynn Sherr of Parade magazine. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cooperstown, NY, on May 22.   The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on May 22.   May 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President received an update from Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki and White House Deputy  Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II on the situation at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Later in the afternoon, while walking to the Department of the Interior with Counselor to the President John D. Podesta, the President stopped on the Ellipse to visit with tourists. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss the situation in Syria and reaffirm Jordan-U.S. relations. The President announced that he has nominated Armando O. Bonilla, Patricia M. McCarthy, and Jeri K. Somers to be judges on the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. May 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with chief executive officers from the travel and tourism industry to discuss the national economy and tourism's role in boosting growth. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cooperstown, NY, where he toured the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum with Hall of Fame President Jeffrey L. Idelson and 2010 Inductee Andre N. Dawson. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. In the evening, upon arrival in Chicago, the President traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will host the 2014 White House science fair on May 27. The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce H. Andrews to be Deputy Secretary for the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcia S. B. Bernicat to be Ambassador to Bangladesh. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcus D. Jadotte to be Assistant Secretary for Industry and Analysis at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate James D. Pettit to be Ambassador of Moldova. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura S. Wertheimer to be Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The President announced his intention to appoint Caitlin K. Cahow as a member of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition. The President announced his intention to appoint Steven Croley as a member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S. The President announced his intention to appoint Jane Jelenko as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint John S. Kem as a Commissioner of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint George A. Elmaraghy, Tom FitzGerald, and Susan Hedman as Commissioners of the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission. May 23 In the morning, at Valois Restaurant, the President had breakfast with Gov. Patrick J. Quinn III of Illinois and also visited with patrons. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a bill signing ceremony for H.R. 685, the American Fighter Aces Congressional Gold Medal Act, and H.R.1209, awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to the World War II members of the "Doolittle Tokyo Raiders." During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jacob Zuma of South Africa to congratulate him on his reelection. May 24 In the evening, the President traveled to Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan, arriving the following evening. Musician Brad D. Paisley accompanied him aboard Air Force One. May 25 In the evening, at Bagram Air Base, the President toured the Joint Operating Center with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan James B. Cunningham and International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) Commander Gen. Joseph F. Dumford, Jr., USA. Later, at the base military hospital, he met with wounded U.S. servicemembers. Then, also at Bagram Air Base, he had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to congratulate him on the progress being made by the Afghan military and security forces and the successful first round of Presidential elections and express support for an Afghan-led reconciliation process with the Taliban. Later in the evening, the President traveled to Ramstein Air Force Base, Germany, arriving early the following morning.  The White House announced that the President will travel to West Point, NY, on May 28 to deliver the commencement address at the U.S. Military Academy. May 26 In the morning, the President returned to Washington DC. Later, in the State Dining Room, he hosted a breakfast in honor of Memorial Day. Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill also attended. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Biden and his wife Jill traveled to Arlington, VA, where at Arlington National Cemetery, they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Biden and his wife Jill returned to Washington, DC. May 27 In the morning, in the State Dining Room, Red Room, and Blue Room, the President viewed projects on exhibit for the White House science fair. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to congratulate him on his May 25 election victory and offer U.S. support and assistance as Ukraine implements economic and democratic reforms.  The White House announced that the President will host a Healthy Kids & Safe Sports Concussion Summit on May 29. May 28 In the morning, the President traveled to Stewart Air National Guard Base in Newburgh, NY. Upon arrival, he traveled to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY. Later, at the West Point residence of Lt. Gen. Robert L. Caslen, Jr., he participated in a taped an interview with Steve Inskeep of National Public Radio's "Morning Edition" program for later broadcast.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, while on the West Point campus, the President had a telephone conversation with Amir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani of Qatar to discuss the transfer of five members of the Afghan Taliban from the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station detention center in Cuba to Qatari custody in Doha in exchange for the release of Sgt. Bowe R. Bergdahl, USA, from Taliban forces in Afghanistan. Also during the day, while at West Point, he had a meeting to discuss the prisoner exchange with advisers. May 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had lunch with former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, on the South Lawn, he joined students participating in a sports clinic as part of the White House Healthy Kids & Safe Sports Concussion Summit. During the day, in the Blue Room, the President taped an interview with Kelly Ripa and Michael Strahan of "Live! With Kelly & Michael" for later broadcast. May 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs Sloan D. Gibson. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, at Federal Emergency Management Agency headquarters, he received a briefing on Federal preparedness efforts ahead of the 2014 hurricane season from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Administrator Kathryn Sullivan, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson, and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate. Later, at the Children's National Medical Center, he visited with children being treated for asthma and other respiratory illnesses aggravated by air pollution. May 31 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Robert and Jani Bergdahl, parents of Sgt. Bowe R. Bergdahl, USA, who was released from captivity by Taliban forces in Afghanistan earlier in the day. June 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. In the evening, the President traveled to Warsaw, Poland, arriving the following morning. June 3 In the morning, upon arrival at Warsaw Chopin Airport in Warsaw, Poland, the President and President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland toured a hangar housing F–16 aircraft and met with U.S. and Polish military personnel. Later, at Belweder Palace in Warsaw, he met with President Komorowski. In the afternoon, at Koniecpolski Palace in Warsaw, the President participated in a photograph with Central and Eastern European leaders. Then, he traveled to the Warsaw Marriott Hotel. In the evening, at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, the President attended a Solidarity Dinner. Then, he returned to the Warsaw Marriott Hotel, where he remained overnight. The President announced his intention to nominate John R. Bass to be Ambassador to Turkey. The President announced his intention to nominate Leslie Ann Bassett to be Ambassador to Paraguay. The President announced his intention to nominate Allan P. Mustard to be Ambassador to Turkmenistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Todd D. Robinson to be Ambassador to Guatemala. The President announced his intention to appoint Maurice Obstfeld as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. The President announced his intention to appoint Shefali Razdan Duggal as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. June 4 In the morning, at the Warsaw Marriott Hotel, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Later, at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, he participated in a family photo with leaders attending the Freedom Day commemoration. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Brussels, Belgium, where, upon arrival, he traveled to The Hotel. In the evening, at the Royal Palace of Brussels, the President participated in an official photograph followed by a meeting with King Philippe and Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo of Belgium. Later, at the Justus Lipsius Building in Brussels, the headquarters of the Council of the European Union, he participated in a photograph with European Commission President José Manuel Durão Barroso and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy. Then, also at the Justus Lipsius Building, he attended a working dinner with Group of Seven (G–7) leaders. Later, he returned to The Hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2014 NCAA Champion University of Connecticut men's and women's basketball teams to the White House on June 9. June 5 In the morning, at the Justus Lipsius Building, the President attended a Group of Seven (G–7) leaders meeting on the global economy. Then, also at the Justus Lipsius Building, he participated in an official photograph with G–7 leaders, followed by a G–7 leaders meeting on energy and climate issues. In the afternoon, at the Justus Lipsius Building, the President participated in a working lunch with Group of Seven (G–7) leaders on development. Then, also at the Justus Lipsius Building, he met with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. Later, he traveled to Paris, France, where, upon arrival, he traveled to the U.S. Ambassador's residence. In the evening, at Le Chiberta restaurant in Paris, the President had dinner with President François Hollande of France. They were joined by Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development Laurent Fabius and Director General for Political and Security Affairs Jacques Audibert of France. Later, at Restaurant Helen, he met with National Security Adviser Rice, White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett, and Laurent Delanney of Monte-Carlo, Monaco, a friend of the President. Then, he returned to the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where he remained overnight. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin F. O’Malley to be Ambassador to Ireland. The President announced his intention to nominate Jessie H. Roberson to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, and upon appointment, to designate him as Vice Chair. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel J. Santos to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Kiev, Ukraine, to attend the Inauguration of Petro Poroshenko as President of Ukraine on June 7: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); Geoffrey R. Pyatt; John S. McCain III; Ron H. Johnson; Christopher S. Murphy; Marcia C. Kaptur; Daniel B. Baer; and Victoria J. Nuland. June 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Carpiquet, France. Upon arrival, he traveled to Omaha Beach in Normandy, where he met with U.S. military veterans and servicemembers. Later, at the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial, he toured the observation deck with President François Hollande of France. In the afternoon, while at Omaha Beach, the President taped an interview with Brian Williams of NBC's "NBC Nightly News With Brian Williams" program for later broadcast. Then, he traveled to Bénouville, France, where, at the Château de Bénouville, he participated in a photographic opportunity for leaders attending the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the D-day landing at Normandy, followed by a heads-of-state lunch. At the conclusion of the lunch, he met informally with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Ukraine. President Obama emphasized the need for Russia to recognize President-elect Petro Poroshenko as the legitimate leader of Ukraine, end support for separatists in eastern Ukraine, stop the provision of arms across the Russia-Ukraine border, and work with the Ukrainian Government to reduce tensions. He also indicated that failure to take these steps would increase Russia's international isolation. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Ouistreham, France, where, at Sword Beach, he attended the Ouistreham International Ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of D-day. Then, he returned to Paris, France, arriving in the evening. In the evening, at Paris Orly International Airport, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will welcome the Women's National Basketball Association Champion Minnesota Lynx on June 12. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Sao Paulo, Brazil, to attend the opening of the 2014 FIFA World Cup on June 12: Daniel H. Pfeiffer (head of delegation); Liliana Ayalde; Michelle Akers; and Gabrielle Reece. The President announced his intention to nominate Jane D. Hartley to be Ambassador to France. The President Obama announced his intention to nominate Cary Douglas Pugh to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to appoint Mia Guttfreund Lehrer as a member of the Commission of Fine Arts. June 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with nurses from across the country to discuss immigration reform. In the afternoon, the President and White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough walked to the local Starbucks for coffee, shaking hands and greeting people along the way. Later, in the Situation Room, he participated in  a video teleconference meeting with Governors from eight Western States to discuss the ongoing severe drought in the West,efforts to prepare for the upcoming wildfire season, and Federal funding for wildfire suppression efforts.   The White House announced that the President will travel to Worcester, MA, on June 11. June 10 In the morning, at the South Court of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President participated in bill signing ceremonies for H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and H.R. 1726, awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to the Army's 65th Infantry Regiment, the "Borinqueneers". In the afternoon, the President traveled to Alexandria, VA, where, at FireFlies restaurant, he and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan had lunch, and he had a telephone conversation with owner Marylisa Lichens and greeted patrons. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi of Egypt, to congratulate him on his Inauguration, convey his commitment to advancing Egypt-U.S. relations, and reiterate U.S. support for  human rights in Egypt.  June 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the United States Sentencing Commission. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Worcester, MA. Later,  he traveled to Weston, MA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cannon Ball, ND, on June 13. The White House announced that the President will travel to Palm Springs, CA, on June 13. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Los Angeles area and Anaheim, CA, on June 14. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from April 15 through 18.  June 12 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. During the day, the President met with the National Security Council to discuss the situation in Iraq. The President announced an updated designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Sao Paulo, Brazil, to attend the opening of the 2014 Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup game on June 12: H. Daniel Pfeiffer (head of delegation); Liliana Ayalde; and Tiffany Roberts Sahaydak. The White House further announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to Cpl. William "Kyle" Carpenter, USMC, on June 19. June 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Cannon Ball, ND, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to discuss the situations in Iraq and Ukraine and the recent Group of Seven (G–7) meetings.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a roundtable discussion with Native American Youth. Later, they  traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA, where, upon arrival, they traveled to the private residence of U.S. Ambassador to Spain James Costos, where they remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Maker Faire on June 18. The White House announced that the President will travel to Pittsburgh, PA, on June 17. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania: Wendy Beetlestone; Mark A. Kearney; Joseph F. Leeson, Jr.; and Gerald J. Pappert.  The President announced his intention to nominate Victor A. Bolden to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut. The President announced his intention to nominate Erica J. Barks Ruggles to be Ambassador to Rwanda. The President announced his intention to nominate Brent R. Hartley to be Ambassador to Slovenia. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald L. Heflin to be Ambassador to Cabo Verde. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl R. Miller to be Ambassador to Botswana. The President announced his intention to nominate David Pressman to be U.S. Alternate Representative for Special Political Affairs to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation: John Anderson; Roger N. Beachy; Vicki Chandler; Robert M. Groves; James S. Jackson; and Sethuraman Panchanathan. The President announced his intention to appoint Rodney Ewing as Chairman of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board: Sue Clark; Linda Nozick; Kenneth Peddicord; and Paul Turinsky. June 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Laguna Beach, CA, where, at a private residence, he participated in a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. Later, he traveled to Anaheim, CA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA. During the day, the President received telephone updates on the situation in Iraq from National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice. In the evening, the President returned to the private residence of U.S. Ambassador to Spain James Costos, where he remained overnight.  The President announced his intention to appoint Richard R. Kasher as Chair of Presidential Emergency Board No. 246.  The President announced his intention to appoint Ann S. Kenis and Bonnie S. Weinstock as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 246.  June 15 In the morning, the President received a telephone update on the situation in Iraq from National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Juan Carlos I of Spain to congratulate him on his reign ahead of the upcoming investiture of his son, Crown Prince Felipe, and reaffirm Spain-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on June 17. June 16 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, the President met with the National Security Council to discuss the situation in Iraq and review possible response options. June 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President toured the facilities of TechShop Pittsburgh, a community workshop and prototyping studio, with General Manager Matt Verlinich. Later, he traveled to New York City, where at the Intercontinental New York—Times Square hotel, he attended a roundtable event for the Senate Majority PAC. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser and dinner. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding on May 11 and 12. June 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, on the South Lawn, he viewed projects exhibited as part of the White House Maker Faire. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President had a working lunch with leading economists Anat Admati, Alan S. Blinder, Erik Brynjolfsson, Roland Fryer, Claudia Goldin, and Paul Krugman to discuss efforts to accelerate economic growth, expand opportunity, and improve the U.S. business competitiveness. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the situation in Iraq and review possible response options. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. June 19 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Iraq and review possible response options. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss joint Mexico-U.S. efforts to respond to the influx of unaccompanied alien children across the U.S. Southwest border and ways to advance immigration reform. The President announced his intention to appoint Johnathan A. Yuen as a member of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. The President announced his intention to appoint Earl E. Krygier as the U.S. Commissioner of the United Section of the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities: Susan Axelrod; James T. Brett; Dan Habib; Stacey Milbern; Susana Ramirez; Ricardo Thornton, Sr.; and Betty Williams. The President announced the he has nominated David J. Hale and Greg N. Stivers to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. The President announced that he has nominated Arthur L. Bentley III to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated David Rivera to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. June 20 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Gregg Popovich, head coach of the National Basketball Association's San Antonio Spurs, to congratulate him on his team's victory in the NBA Finals.  During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President François Hollande of France to discuss the situations in Ukraine and Iraq. Also during the day, he had a telephone conversation with Dustin Brown, captain of the National Hockey League's Los Angeles Kings, to congratulate him on his performance in this year’s Stanley Cup Championship and commend his role as a leader on the U.S. men's hockey team for the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia. The White House announced that the President will welcome 2013 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series Champion Jimmie Johnson and his Hendrick Motorsports team members on June 25. The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn Watts Colvin to be Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.  June 22 In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for Ford's Theatre. June 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Ukraine, the removal of chemical weapons from Syria, and ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. In the afternoon, at Chipotle Mexican Grill, the President had lunch with White House Summit on Working Families attendees Lisa Rumain of Martinsville, NJ, Roger Trombley of Ann Arbor, MI, Shelby Ramirez of Denver, CO, and Shirley Young of New York City. Later, at the Omni Shoreham Hotel, he participated in a roundtable discussion at the White House Summit on Working Families. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to Staff Sgt. Ryan M. Pitts, USA, on July 21. June 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situations in Ukraine and Iraq. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Minneapolis, MN, on June 26. June 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the situation in Ukraine. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and President Shimon Peres of Israel dropped by a meeting of leaders of the U.S. Jewish community. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with President Peres. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with President Peres. Later, on the State Floor, he and Vice President Biden met with members of the Senate Democratic Caucus. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Panama to attend the Inauguration of Juan Carlos Varela Rodriguez as President of Panama on July 1: John F. Kerry; Jonathan D. Farrar; Deval L. Patrick; and Roberta S. Jacobson. June 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he was briefed by his homeland security team on the floods affecting parts of Minnesota. Later, he traveled to Minneapolis, MN, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at Matt's Bar & Grill in Minneapolis, the President had lunch with St. Anthony, MN, resident Rebekah Erler, who had written a letter to the President describing the economic challenges faced by her family. Later, he traveled to St. Paul, MN, where, at Golden Fig food market, he purchased items and met with owner Laurie McCann Crowell, who had written a letter to the President inviting him to visit the store. Then, he walked to the Grand Ole Creamery ice cream shop, where he greeted patrons and purchased ice cream. In the evening, the President traveled to the Sheraton Bloomington Hotel in Bloomington, MN, where he remained overnight. The President announced the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the final match of the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on July 13: Heather A. Higginbottom (head of delegation); Liliana Ayalde; Jonathan McBride; John P. Bilbrey; and Cobi Jones. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher Hart to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate John W. Leslie, Jr., to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation, and upon appointment, to designate him as Chairperson. The President announced his intention to appoint Donald L. Pereira and Douglas L. Stang as Commissioners of the U.S. Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Madeline Cox Arleo to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The President announced that he has nominated Amos L. Mazzant III and Robert W. Schroeder III to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Robert L. Pitman to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. June 27 In the morning, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN, where, at the Minnesota Workforce Development Center, he, Sen. Al Franken, and Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez visited with young mothers participating in a job training program. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Acting Secretary of Veterans Affairs Sloan D. Gibson and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II to discuss efforts to implement reforms and improve care in the Veterans Health Administration. During the day, in the Blue Room, the President taped an interview with Norah O'Donnell for CBS's "CBS This Morning" program for later broadcast. He also taped separate interviews with Mika Brzezinski for MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program and Kate Bolduan for CNN's "New Day" program for later broadcast. In the evening, at the Marine Barracks, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Sasha attended the Evening Parade. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks on the economy at the Georgetown Waterfront Park on July 1. June 29 In the afternoon, the President and his daughter Natasha "Sasha" traveled to Great Falls National Park in McLean, VA. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. June 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President and Secretary-designate of Veterans Affairs Robert A. McDonald walked through Lafayette Park. July 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the South Court Auditorium of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President joined members of his staff to watch the U.S.-Belgium World Cup soccer game on television. July 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to express his best wishes on the occasion of Ramadan and discuss the situation in Iraq. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President  and  Vice President Joe Biden had lunch with leading economists to discuss efforts to accelerate economic growth, expand opportunity, and improve U.S. business competitiveness. Later, in the Oval Office, the President taped an interview with Kai Ryssdal of American Public Media's "Marketplace Morning Report" program for later broadcast.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with U.S. Men's National Soccer Team captain Clinton D. Dempsey and goalkeeper Timothy M. Howard to congratulate them on their team's performance in the 2014 Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup in Brazil. July 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, at 1776, a startup hub and technology incubator, he greeted members and participated in one-on-one conversations with young entrepreneurs.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine. Later, in the Library, he taped an interview with Ken Burns of PBS. Mrs. Obama later joined him for a second interview with Mr. Burns. July 6 The White House announced that the President will travel to Austin, TX, on July 9 and 10. July 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, ongoing peace and reconciliation efforts with separatist elements, and international diplomatic efforts to secure Russian support for the new Ukrainian Government. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Afghan Presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah to discuss the June runoff election, the need for calm and restraint during the final tabulation of results, and the necessity for a thorough investigation of any election fraud.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Denver, CO, on July 8 and 9. The White House announced that the President will travel to Dallas, TX, on July 9. July 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen to discuss the situation in Ukraine and the June runoff election in Afghanistan. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for the diplomatic corps. Later, he traveled to Denver, CO, arriving in the evening. Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Afghan Presidential candidate Ashraf Ahmadzai Ghani to discuss the June runoff election, the need for calm and restraint during the final tabulation of results, and the necessity for a thorough investigation of any election fraud.  In the evening, at the Wazee Supper Club, the President had dinner with wage worker Alex Dooley, college student Elizabeth Cooper, small-business owner Carolyn Reed and her husband David Johnson, and teacher Leslie Gresham, who had written him letters aboutissues affecting the middle class. Later, he took a walk in the area surrounding the restaurant and greeted local residents. Then, he traveled to the Wynkoop Brewing Company, where he visited with patrons, had a beer, and shot some pool with Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado. Later in the evening, the President traveled to the Renaissance Denver Hotel, where he remained overnight. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from May 13 through 22. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall to be Deputy Secretary of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Jess L. Baily to be Ambassador to Macedonia.  The President announced his intention to nominate Judith B. Cefkin to be Ambassador to Fiji Islands, Kiribati, Nauru, Tonga, and Tuvalu. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert F. Cekuta to be Ambassador to Azerbaijan. The President announced his intention to nominate S. Fitzgerald Haney to be Ambassador to Costa Rica.The President announced his intention to nominate Michele J. Sison to be U.S. Deputy Representative to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, and U.S. Deputy Representative in the Security Council of the United Nations.  The President announced his intention to nominate Margaret A. Uyehara to be Ambassador to Montenegro. The President announced his intention to nominate James P. Zumwalt to be Ambassador to Senegal and Guinea Bissau. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from May 13 through 22. July 9 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Dallas, TX. Upon arrival at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, he and Gov. J. Richard Perry traveled to Dallas Love Field airport. Later, at DalFort Fueling, he met with State and local officials and faith leaders to discuss the influx of unaccompanied alien children arriving across the U.S. Southwest border. In the evening, the President traveled to Austin, TX. Later, he traveled to the Sheraton Austin Hotel at the Capitol, where he remained overnight. July 10 In the morning, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, at the MagnoliaCafe, he had coffee with Kinsey Button, a student at the University of Texas at Austin who had written him a letter about issues affecting her and her family. He also visited with staff and greeted patrons. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Franklin Barbecue, where he purchased lunch and visited briefly with patrons. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation in Gaza, the recent kidnapping and murder of Israeli and Palestinian teenagers, and joint efforts to negotiate a cease-fire agreement. They also discussed the international diplomatic efforts to halt the development of nuclear weapons in Iran. The President announced his intention to nominate Craig B. Allen to be Ambassador to Brunei.  The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon Block to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard M. Mills, Jr. to be Ambassador to Armenia.  The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Nimmich to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  The President announced his intention to nominate Anne E. Rung to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate Alissa M. Starzak to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate John F. Tefft to be Ambassador to Russia. The President announced his intention to appoint Charles Benton as a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Langer as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Lillian M. Lowery as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Anne Ashmore-Hudson, Steven M. Goldman; Dale LeFebvre; and Anita Lin.  July 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with large company executives and their small-business suppliers to discuss the launch of the SupplierPay initiative, a new partnership between the Federal Government and the private sector to strengthen small businesses by increasing their working capital, and discuss ways to strengthen the national economy. The White House announced that the President will travel to McLean, VA, on July 15. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Tbilisi, Georgia, to attend the funeral service of former President Eduard Shevardnadze of Georgia: James A. Baker III (head of delegation); and Richard B. Norland.  July 13 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Ukraine, the recent Presidential election in Afghanistan, efforts to form a new government in Iraq, and ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. July 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President greeted wounded servicemembers and their families during a tour of the White House. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S.: Jose Luis Fialho Rocha of Cabo Verde, Prasad Kariyawasam of Sri Lanka, Tigran Sargsyan of Armenia, Mamady Conde of Guinea, and Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke of Somalia. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss progress achieved during the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue, U.S.-China cooperation in the ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons and ensure that North Korea meets its denuclearization commitments, and the upcoming Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders' meeting in Beijing. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to Staff Sgt. Ryan M. Pitts, USA, on July 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Wilmington, DE, on July 17. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding on June 3 and 4. July 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to McLean, VA, where he toured the Federal Highway Administration's Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center with Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx, Research Center Director Michael F. Trentacoste, and Connected Vehicle Program Manager Carl K. Andersen. During the tour, he tested a self-driving car simulator and met with researchers. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine, ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons, and Germany-U.S. intelligence cooperation. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on July 17. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations: J. David Cox; Michael B. Filler; David J. Holway; and H.T. Nguyen. July 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, they met with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to discuss immigration reform and the President's request for supplemental funding to address the influx of migrants in the Río Grande Valley areas of the United States-Mexico border. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs Jonathan D. Samuels. The White House announced that the President will travel to Martha's Vineyard, MA, on August 9. July 17 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Ukraine. During the call, President Putin noted early reports of a downed passenger jet near the Russia-Ukraine border. Later, the President was briefed on the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 near the Russia-Ukraine border. Then, he traveled to Wilmington, DE. In the afternoon, upon arrival in Wilmington, the President traveled to the Charcoal Pit restaurant, where he had lunch with Newark, DE, resident Tanei Benjamin, who had written a letter to the President describing her experience as a working single mother. Then, he traveled to Port of Wilmington, DE. Later, he traveled to New York City. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine and Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia to discuss the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and offer U.S. assistance in investigating the crash. President Obama and President Poroshenko discussed the need for all evidence to remain in place on Ukrainian territory until examined by international investigators, and President Obama expressed his condolences to Prime Minister Najib and the Malaysian people for the loss of life. Later in the afternoon, upon arrival in New York City, the President had a telephone conversation with Secretary of State John F. Kerry to discuss the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and the situation in Israel and Gaza. Then, he received a teleconference briefing from Director of Central Intelligence John O. Brennan, White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence Stephanie O'Sullivan, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17. Later, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. In the evening, at a private residence, the President participated in a House Majority PAC roundtable discussion. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands to express his condolences for the deaths of Dutch citizens traveling on Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and offer U.S. assistance in investigating the crash. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles C. Adams, Jr., to be Ambassador to Finland. The President announced his intention to nominate Chip Fulghum to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Adri D. Jayaratne to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara A. Leaf to be Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates. The President announced his intention to nominate Virginia E. Palmer to be Ambassador to Malawi. The President announced his intention to nominate William V. Roebuck to be Ambassador to Bahrain. The President announced his intention to nominate Mickey D. Barnett to be a Governor on the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to nominate James L. Huffman to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew V. Masterson and Christy McCormick to be Commissioners on the Election Assistance Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Donald J. Butt as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Ethan Epstein as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint Virna L. Winters as a member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. July 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a meeting with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew, followed by a meeting with Secretary Lew and Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia to discuss the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, including the importance of a prompt, full, unimpeded, and transparent international investigation and the need for immediate access by international investigators to the crash site. The President offered his condolences for the deaths of Australian citizens traveling on Flight 17 and continuing U.S. support and cooperation. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in Ukraine; recent actions taken by the U.S. and the European Union against individuals and entities from Russia and elsewhere involved in destabilizing Ukraine; and Russia's responsibility for denying separatists in eastern Ukraine continued access to heavy weapons and other support. Also during the day, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the crash of Flight 17 and recent international efforts to increase the costs to Russia for its failure to deescalate the situation in Ukraine. They also discussed the situation in Israel and Gaza and ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. In the evening, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Otto Fernando Pérez Molina of Guatemala, President Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado of Honduras, and President Salvador Sánchez Cerén of El Salvador to the White House on July 25. July 19 The White House announced that the President will visit Walker-Jones Education Campus in Washington, DC, on July 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Seattle, WA, on July 22. July 20 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation in Gaza. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia to discuss the downed passenger aircraft Malaysia Airlines Flight 17the necessity of a prompt international investigation. July 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with his Homeland Security Council to discuss the humanitarian situation at the U.S.  Southwest border.  Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland to discuss the situation in Ukraine and the upcoming NATO summit in Wales. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco, CA, on July 22. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on July 23. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from June 11 through July 11.  July 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President  met with Apollo 11 crewmembers Edwin E. "Buzz" Aldrin, Jr. and Michael Collins and Carol Armstrong, wife of late Apollo 11 crewmember Neal A. Armstrong, to commemorate the 45th anniversary of the first Moon landing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands, to discuss the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and the importance of securing the crash site to allow for a full and transparent international investigation. Later, he traveled to Seattle, WA. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Senate Majority PAC roundtable fundraiser event. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President-elect Joko Widodo of Indonesia to congratulate him on his July 9 election victory, commend the Indonesian people on their commitment to democracy, and reaffirm Indonesia-U.S. relations. Upon arrival in San Francisco, he traveled to the InterContinental San Francisco Hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will award the 2013 National Medal of Arts and National Humanities Medal on July 28. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffery M. Baran and Stephen Burns to be Commissioners of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonodev O. Chaudhuri to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Anita Bevacqua McBride and Joseph Falk as members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. July 23 In the morning, the President traveled to the Four Seasons Hotel San Francisco, where he attended a House Majority PAC event. Later, he traveled to Los Altos Hills, CA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Secretary of State John F. Kerry to discuss efforts to negotiate a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas. Upon arrival in Los Angeles, he traveled to the Four Seasons Los Angeles at Beverly Hills hotel in Beverly Hills. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles.  In the evening, the President returned to the Four Seasons Los Angeles at Beverly Hills hotel, where he remained overnight. The President declared an emergency in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by wildfires beginning on July 9 and continuing. July 24 In the morning, the President traveled to a private residence, where he participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable discussion. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Canter's Fairfax delicatessen and restaurant, where he visited with patrons and had lunch with Katrice Mubiru, Aaron Anderson, Joan Waddell, and Kati Koster, who had all written letters to him about issues affecting the middle class. Later, at Los Angeles Trade-Technical College, in the library, he participated in a live interview with Steve Liesman of CNBC.  Later in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss the situation at the U.S. Southwest border. He also had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia and Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands to discuss the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, express again his condolences on behalf of the American people, and reaffirm the need for full, international access to the crash site, for any remains to be repatriated, and the urgency of an open and transparent investigation. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders Presidential Summit on July 28. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas R. Frieden to be Representative of the U.S. on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization. The President announced his intention to nominate Perry L. Holloway, to be Ambassador to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. The President announced his intention to nominate Willie E. May to be Under Secretary for Standards and Technology at the National Institute of Standards and Technology for the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Therese W. McMillian to be Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela L. Spratlen to be Ambassador of Uzbekistan. The President announced his intention to appoint Betsaida Alcantara as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Karen K. Narasaki and Patricia Timmons-Goodson as Commissioners of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael P. Ross as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.  The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 14 through 23. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 14 through 21. July 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he had separate telephone conversations with Afghan Presidential candidates Abdullah Abdullah and Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai to thank them for supporting the agreement to form a national unity government and encourage them to accept the audit of ballots cast in the June 14 runoff election. During the day, in the East Room, the President visited with members of the American Legion Boys and Girls State programs and participated in a photographic opportunity. Then, in the Vice President's Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with 108-year-old Lucy Coffey, the oldest living female U.S. veteran, to thank her for her service in World War II. July 26 The White House announced that the President will travel to Kansas City, MO, on July 29. July 27 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation in Gaza and international efforts to secure a renewed cease-fire based on the November 2012 agreement. July 28 In the morning, the President participated in a video conference with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the situations in Ukraine, Gaza, Iraq, and Libya. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the World War I Centennial Commemoration in Liege, Belgium, on August 4: John M. McHugh (head of delegation); Denise Campbell Bauer; Philip M. Breedlove; and Alfred A. Valenzuela.  The President announced his intention to nominate David N. Saperstein to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom at the Department of State. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 1 through 4. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, local, and tribal recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 13 through 20. July 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with House Democrats to discuss the national economy. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President visited with the summer class of White House Interns and participated in a photographic opportunity. Later, he traveled to Bethesda, MD, where at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he visited with wounded servicemembers and their family members. Then, he traveled to Kansas City, MO, arriving in the evening. In the evening, at Arthur Bryant's Barbeque restaurant, the President had dinner with public sector employee Victor Fugate, small-business owner Valerie McCaw, nonprofit worker Mark Turner, and neighborhood organizer Becky Forrest, who had all written letters to him about issues affecting the middle class. July 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Parkville, MO, where at the Parkville Coffee shop, he visited with patrons and staff and ordered drinks. Then, at the Cool Vintage Watches memorabilia shop and Peddlers Wagon quilt and gift shop, he visited with staff.  In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Manson K. Brown to be Assistant Secretary for Environmental Observation and Prediction at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Carmen Amalia Corrales to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Rafael J. López to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to appoint Evan J. Wallach as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China: Christopher P. Lu; Tom Malinowski; Danny Russel; Stefan M. Selig; and Sarah Sewall.  The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans: Peggy L. Brookins; Kent McGuire; Evelynn M. Hammonds; Michael T. Nettles; Spencer Overton; Becky Pringle; and John Rice. The President announced his intention to appoint Regina Stanback Stroud as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. July 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with Members of Congress to discuss national security issues. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with 2014 Kavli Prize laureates in astrophysics, nanoscience, and neuroscience and participated in a photographic opportunity. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew LaMont Eanes to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security at the Social Security Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Mari del Carmen Aponte to be Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador, at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Lourdes M. Castro Ramírez to be Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Brodi L. Fontenot to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary L. Jordan to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, and upon appointment, to be designated Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate P. David Lopez to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert T. Yamate to be Ambassador to Madagascar and Comoros. The President announced that he has nominated Allison Dale Burroughs to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated Amit Priyavadan Mehta to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced his intention to appoint Tanya J. Bradsher as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Brian de Vallance as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint John Norris as a member of the President's Global Development Council. August 1 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Ukraine and Russia-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a bill signing ceremony for S. 517, Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act. August 2 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. August 3 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. August 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with his senior advisers.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Fort Belvoir, VA, on August 7. August 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He also had a telephone conversation with Gen. Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., USMC, commander, International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, to discuss the shooting at Marshal Fahim National Defense University in Kabul, Afghanistan, in which Maj. Gen. Harold J. Greene, USA, was killed and additional coalition military personnel were wounded by a member of the Afghan National Security Forces. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The President announced that he has nominated Jorge L. Alonso and John R. Blakey to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 26 through July 7. August 6 In the afternoon, at the Department of State, the President participated in a family photograph with leaders attending the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit. Later, also at the Department of State, he participated in a leaders session on peace and regional stability, followed by a leaders session on governing for the next generation. In the evening, while en route to the White House, the President was briefed in his limousine by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, USA, on the situation in Iraq. Then, in the Oval Office, they met with the President's national security team. The President designated the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Juan Manuel Santos Calderon as President of Colombia in Bogota, Colombia, on August 7: Thomas A. Shannon, Jr. (head of delegation); Kevin Whitaker; and Ramona E. Romero. August 7 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Iraq. He was also briefed by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco on preparations for Hurricanes Iselle and Julio. Later, he traveled to Fort Belvoir, Virginia. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Iraq. Joining the meeting separately by videoconference were Secretary of State John F. Kerry from Afghanistan, Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel from India, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samantha Power, and Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, USA, commander, U.S. Central Command. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Martha's Vineyard, MA, on August 9, and that the President will return to Washington, DC, on August 17, then travel to Martha's Vineyard on August 19, and return to Washington, DC, on August 24. August 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss the situations in Iraq and Gaza. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez.  Also in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco, Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken, and National Security Adviser to the Vice President Jake Sullivan on the situation in Iraq. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker. Later, in the Map Room, he participated in an interview with Thomas L. Friedman of the New York Times for later broadcast online. August 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the situation in Iraq, the need for an urgent, international response to the humanitarian crisis on Mount Sinjar, the threat that the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) poses to all Iraqi communities, and the targeted strikes that the Unites States is undertaking to protect U.S. personnel and prevent ISIL's advance on the city of Erbil. He also had a separate telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situations in Iraq and Ukraine and efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Malia traveled to Chilmark, MA, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark. August 10 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. August 11 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, U.S. support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, Russia's continued military intervention in Ukraine's affairs, and efforts to deliver multilateral humanitarian aid to the distressed populations in eastern Ukraine. He also had a separate telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the situations in Iraq, Libya, and Ukraine, as well as the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.  In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Edgartown, MA. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Tisbury, MA. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Iraqi Prime Minister-designate Haider al-Abadi to congratulate him on his appointment as Prime Minister, express U.S. support for the formation of a new Government and ongoing reconciliation efforts among Iraq's sectarian communities, and discuss U.S.-Iraq security cooperation. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by wildfires from July 9 through August 5. August 12 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Edgartown, MA. During the day, the President Obama has a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to discuss the situation in Iraq, international efforts to provide humanitarian and security assistance to the civilians trapped on Mount Sinjar, operations to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) organization, and the need for continued reconciliation efforts by Iraqi political leaders from all factions to form an inclusive Government. He also had a separate telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to congratulate him on his election as President and discuss the situations in Iraq, Syria, and Gaza. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. August 13 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation in Gaza and the ongoing negotiations in Cairo to achieve a sustainable cease-fire agreement. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA, to attend a birthday party for Ann Jordan at the Farm Neck Golf Club. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 5 through 10. August 14 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Edgartown, MA. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia and President Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone to discuss the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and U.S. cooperation with international partners to contain the outbreak and express his condolences for the lives lost.  In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. August 15 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to West Tisbury, MA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark. August 16 The White House announced that the President will return to Washington, DC, on August 17. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to West Tisbury, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. August 17 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, they traveled to Edgartown, MA. Later, he and his daughter Malia returned to Washington, DC. August 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden met with the National Security Council to discuss the situation in Iraq. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., to receive an update on the situation in Ferguson, MO. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cape Cod, MA, on August 19. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeanne E. Davidson to be a judge on the on the U.S. Court of International Trade. The President announced his intention to nominate Haywood S. Gilliam, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. August 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with economic advisers to discuss the national economy. Later, he traveled to Chilmark, MA. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from June 25 through July 1. August 20 The President announced his intention to appoint Patricia Welbourn Lorsch and Rusty Rueff as members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Orlan Boston as a member of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Inc. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as general trustees on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: John D. Goldman; Amalia Perea Mahoney; Alyssa Mastromonaco; and Reginald Van Lee. The President announced his intention to appoint Danielle C. Gray as a member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States. The President announced his intention to appoint Barry Thom as a U.S. Commissioner of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Allan Holt as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. August 21 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama had dinner with Gov. Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts. August 22 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine, mutual concern over Russia's continued intervention in Ukrainian affairs, and the importance of securing a bilateral cease-fire. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, they returned their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. August 23 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. Later, he traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark. The White House announced that the President will travel to Charlotte, NC, on August 26. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia will return to Washington, DC, on August 24. August 24 In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Malia returned to Washington, DC. August 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. August 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Charlotte, NC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert A. McDonald. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to CSM Bennie G. Adkins, USA, and posthumously to S4 Donald P. Sloat, USA, on September 15. The President announced the designation of Jess L. Baily as a member of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Recep Tayyip Erdogan as President of Turkey in Ankara, Turkey, on August 28. August 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with members of the President's economic team and senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will travel to Newport, RI, on August 29. August 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine and the upcoming NATO summit in Newport, Wales. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with members of the National Security Council to discuss the situations in Iraq and Syria and U.S. strategy to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) organization. Vice President Joe Biden and several others participated via videoconference. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett, and other senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to the White House on September 18. The White House announced that the President will travel to Westchester County, NY, and Newport, RI, on August 29. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. Botticelli to be Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Seth B. Carpenter to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Gilberto de Jesús to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy at the Small Business Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Russell C. Deyo to be Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Todd A. Fisher and Deven J. Parekh to be members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jennifer A. Haverkamp to be Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Colette Honorable to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Virginia Lodge and Ronald Walter to be members of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel H. Marti to be Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President. The President announced his intention to nominate Carlos Monje, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald A. Pearlman to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Sarah R. Saldaña to be Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Carlos Torres to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps. The President announced his intention to nominate Sheila Gwaltney to be Ambassador to Kyrgyzstan. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter M. McKinley to be Ambassador to Afghanistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Bikoff Pettit to be Ambassador to Latvia. The President announced his intention to appoint S. Dallas Dance as a member of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board: James S. Crown; D. Scott Davis; Jamie Dos Santos; Julius M. Genachowski; Shirley Ann Jackson; and Neal S. Wolin. August 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New Rochelle, NY, where, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable discussion. Then, he traveled to Purchase, NY. Later, he traveled to Newport, RI, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Westchester County, NY, on August 30. The White House announced that the President will travel to Milwaukee, WI, on September 1. August 30 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to White Plains, NY, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada today to discuss the upcoming NATO summit in Newport, Wales, and the situation in Iraq. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Pocantico Hills, NY, where at the Blue Hill at Stone Barns farm and restaurant, they attended the wedding of "Let's Move!" Executive Director and Senior Policy Adviser for Nutrition Policy Sam Kass. Later in the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. September 1 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. September 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Tallinn, Estonia, arriving the following morning. September 3 In the morning, upon arrival at Tallinn Airport, the President traveled to the Swissotel Tallinn. Later, at the Swissotel Tallinn, he visited with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he traveled to the Kadriorg Palace, where he participated in an official arrival ceremony, guest book signing, and official photograph with President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia. Then, also at the Kadriorg Palace, he and President Ilves had a meeting. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Bank of Estonia. Then, he traveled to theStenbock House. Later, he traveled to the Kadriorg Art Museum. Then, he traveled to the Nordea Concert Hall.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Tallinn Airport hangar, where he and Prime Minister Taavi Roivas of Estonia received a briefing on North Atlantic Treaty Organization security reassurance in light of the situation in Ukraine. In the evening, the President traveled to Gloucestershire, Wales. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Celtic Manor Resort in Newport, Wales, where he remained overnight. September 4 In the morning, the President and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom traveled to Mount Pleasant Primary School, where they visited with staff and students. Then, they returned to the Celtic Manor Resort, where they had a meeting.  Later in the morning, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, the President met with Prime Minister Cameron, President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, and President François Hollande of France to discuss the situation in Ukraine. Secretary of State John F. Kerry also attended. In the afternoon, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, the President was greeted by NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Prime Minister Cameron and participated in an official family photograph. Then, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, he had a meeting with NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, officials to discuss coalition progress in Afghanistan. Later, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, he met with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Secretary of State Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, and White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Philip H. Gordon also attended.  Later in the afternoon, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, the President joined a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization–Ukraine Commission. U.S. Permanent Representative to the NATO Council Douglas E. Lute also attended. In the evening, the President dropped by a reception hosted by Prince Charles of Wales. Then, he traveled to Cardiff, Wales, where at Cardiff Castle, he participated in an official family photograph with NATO leaders. Then, also at Cardiff Castle, he had a working dinner with NATO leaders. Later in the evening, the President returned to the Celtic Manor Resort, where he remained overnight. September 5 In the morning, at the Celtic Manor Resort, the President viewed a fly-over ceremony of North Atlantic Treaty Organization aircraft from member nations. Then, he attended a leaders meeting on the future NATO. Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel also attended. Later, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, he had a leaders meeting on the importance of the transatlantic alliance. Later in the morning, also at the Celtic Manor Resort, the President met with President François Hollande of France. National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economics Caroline Atkinson, White House Senior Director for European Affairs Charles A. Kupchan, and French Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development Laurent Fabius and Minister of Defense Jean-Yves Le Drian also attended. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Wiltshire, Wales, arriving in the evening.  In the evening, at the Stonehenge UNESCO World Heritage Site, the President toured the ruins with property curator Heather Sebire. Then, he traveled to Royal Air Force Station Fairford in Gloucestershire, Wales, where upon arrival, he returned to Washington, DC. September 6 In the morning, in the Cabinet Room, the President participated in a television interview with Chuck Todd of NBC's "Meet the Press" program. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Afghan Presidential candidates Abdullah Abdullah and Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai to discuss efforts to form a national unity Government in Afghanistan.  September 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with senior advisers. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations to discuss efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the situations in Iraq and Ukraine, and the goals of the upcoming U.N. General Assembly, including the U.N. Climate Summit and the U.N. Security Council session on foreign terrorist fighters. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq to congratulate him on the formation of a new Iraqi Government and to discuss Iraq-U.S. relations and efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia to discuss the situation in Iraq. Later, in the Old Family Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden hosted a dinner with former National Security Advisers Samuel R. "Sandy" Berger, Zbigniew K. Brzezinski, Thomas E. Donilon, and Stephen J. Hadley; former Central Intelligence Agency Acting Director Michael J. Morrell; Center for a New American Security Chief Executive Officer Michèle A. Flournoy; Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer Jane L. Harman; Council on Foreign Relations President Richard N. Haass; and Brookings Institution President Strobe Talbott to discuss U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, the situation in Ukraine, and other national security issues. They were joined by Secretary of State John F. Kerry and other members of the President's national security team. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to CSM Bennie G. Adkins, USA, and posthumously to S–4 Donald P. Sloat, USA, on September 15. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India to the White House on September 29 and 30. September 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with senior members of his national security team to discuss the Nation's security posture approaching the 13th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The White House announced that the President will deliver an address to the Nation on September 10 to discuss U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The President announced his intention to nominate Michele Thoren Bond to be Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael G. Young to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Donna L. Brazile and Maneesh K. Goyal as members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Dorothy M. Lowman as U.S. Commissioner of the Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. The President announced his intention to appoint Russell F. Smith III as U.S. Commissioner of the International Whaling Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint G.P. "Bud" Peterson and Diane L. Souvaine as members of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Virgil Trujillo as a member of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust. September 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, the situations in Syria and Yemen, and Saudi Arabia-U.S. security cooperation. Then, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Biden met with members of the National Security Council. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with newspaper and magazine journalists and columnists to discuss U.S. strategy to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, the situation in Ukraine, and other national security and foreign policy issues. The President declared a major disaster in American Samoa and ordered Federal aid to supplement territory and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, and landslides from July 29 through August 3. The President declared a major disaster in the Territory of Guam and ordered Federal aid to supplement territory and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Tropical Storm Halong during the period of July 28-31, 2014.  September 11 In the morning, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama, along with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill Biden, participated in a moment of silence to mark the 13th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Patriarch Bechara Boutros Al Rai of the Maronite Church and other Christian religious leaders from the Middle East. During the meeting, he discussed U.S. efforts to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, the historic role of Christian communities in the region, and the importance of protecting Christians and other religious minorities throughout the Middle East. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Later, at the Inspired Teaching School, he and Mrs. Obama participated in a service event. The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by an earthquake from August 24 through September 7. September 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with former President William J. Clinton. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he toured Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine with Fort McHenry Chief of Interpretation Vincent Vaise and Maryland Historical Society President Burton K. Kummerow. They were joined by Gov. Martin J. O'Malley and Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown of Maryland; Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger, and John P. Sarbanes; and Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake of Baltimore. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Charlotte Burrows to be a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Isobel Coleman to be Representative of the United States to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the Rank of Ambassador, U.S. Mission to the United Nations. The President announced his intention to nominate Benjamin L. Cardin and Ronald H. Johnson to be U.S. Representatives to the 69th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. The President announced his intention to nominate Carol L. Hamilton and Leslie Berger Kiernan to be Alternate U.S. Representatives to the 69th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. Scher to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities. The President declared a major disaster in Hawaii and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Tropical Storm Iselle from August 7 through 9. September 14 The White House announced that the President will travel to Atlanta, GA, on September 16. The White House announced that the President will travel to Tampa, FL, on September 16. September 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and the Vice President met with Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Gallatin Room of the Jefferson hotel, he attended a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee event. September 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Gen. John R. Allen, USMC (Ret.), Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL and Deputy Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition Brett H. McGurk,. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with former medical director Kent P. Brantly, Samaritan's Purse Ebola Case Management Center in Monrovia, Liberia, and his wife Amber J. Brantly to discuss the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA, where, in conference room 12105 at the Arlen Specter Headquarters and Emergency Operations Center of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, he received a briefing on the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and the respiratory illness affecting States in the Midwest. Then, in conference room12101, he met with Emory University Hospital physicians, nurses, and other health care professionals who provided medical care for Ebola patients. Later, he traveled to MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, FL, arriving in the evening. In the evening, at the Welcome Center of Harbor Bay, the President participated in reception in appreciation of military spouses. Then, he traveled to the Hilton Tampa Downtown hotel in Tampa, where he remained overnight. September 17 In the morning, the President traveled to MacDill Air Force Base, where, at the U.S. Central Command Joint Intelligence Operations Center, the President participated in a briefing with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel, Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, USA, commander, U.S. Central Command, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser  Lisa O. Monaco, other Central Command leaders, and representatives from countries that have joined the coalition to fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. Then, he toured the Joint Intelligence Operations Center. In the afternoon, at General Clarence Tinker Elementary School, the President visited with first-grade students and gave away signed boxes of White House M&M's. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Situation Room, he had a meeting with his national security team to discuss the global terrorist threat and  counterterrorism efforts. The President announced his intention to nominate Francine Berman and Deborah Willis to be members of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate Mario Cordero to be Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission and, upon appointment, to be designated Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate Bella Dinh-Zarr to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl L. Gay to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul A. Folmsbee to be Ambassador to the Mali. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Catherine Phee to be Ambassador to South Sudan.  The President announced his intention to nominate Pius Pietrzyk to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. September 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S.: Mohammad Ziauddin of Bangladesh, Eerik Marmei of Estonia, Francisco Roberto Altschul Fuentes of El Salvador, Emanuel Arturo Gonzalez Revilla Lince of Panama, Roman Macaya Hayes of Costa Rica, Gerard Araud of France, and Igor Alberto Pangrazio Vera of Paraguay. In the afternoon, at the Capital Hilton hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable. The President announced his intention to nominate Allison Beck to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian J. Egan to be Legal Adviser at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric P. Liu and Victoria Hughes to be members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Dallas Tonsager to be a member of the board of directors of the Farm Credit Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Echaveste to be Ambassador to Mexico. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard R. Verma to be Ambassador to India. The President announced his intention to appoint David P. Abney as a member of the President's Export Council. The President announced that he has nominated Joan M. Azrack to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Alfred H. Bennett to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Loretta Copeland Biggs to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Elizabeth K. Dillon to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated George C. Hanks, Jr., and Jose R. Olvera, Jr., to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Jill N. Parrish to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. September 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Camp David, MD. Later, he received briefings from members of his senior staff on White House intruder Omar J. Gonzalez of Copperas Cove, TX, who was arrested by U.S. Secret Service personnel earlier in the day. September 20 The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to New York City from September 23 through 25. September 21 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Afghan Presidential candidates Abdullah Abdullah and Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai to congratulate them on their signing an agreement to form a national unity Government and discuss Afghanistan-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand to congratulate him on his recent election victory and discuss New Zealand-U.S. relations. September 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President visited with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families during their tour of the White House. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a teleconference with rabbis for Rosh Hashanah. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden, met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. In the evening, at the Naval Observatory, the President attended a Hispanic Heritage Month reception  hosted by Vice President Biden and Mrs. Biden. September 23 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City. Upon arrival, he traveled to United Nations Headquarters. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Sheraton New York Times Square Hotel. Later, he traveled to the Waldorf Astoria New York hotel, where he visited with employees of the U.S. Mission to the United Nations and their families.  In the evening, the President returned to the Waldorf Astoria New York hotel, where he and Mrs. Obama attended a reception for the 69th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. They remained overnight at the Waldorf Astoria. September 24 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, in the U.N. Security Council Consultations Room, he had expanded and restricted bilateral meetings with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq. National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice also attended. In the afternoon, at United Nations Headquarters, the President met with Sam Kahamba Kutesa, President of the 69th Session of the U.N. General Assembly. Then, also at United Nations Headquarters, he met with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  In the evening, the President returned to the Waldorf Astoria New York hotel, where he remained overnight.  September 25 In the morning, the President traveled to United Nations Headquarters. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss ways to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization in Iraq and Syria and commend Turkish authorities on their management of the influx of Iraqi and Syrian refugees entering Turkey. During the day, the President met with Director of the U.S. Secret Service  Julia A. Pierson to discuss the September 19 incident in which White House intruder Omar J. Gonzalez of Copperas Cove, TX, was arrested by U.S. Secret Service personnel. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations: Jill Appell; C. Fred Bergsten; Bill Frenzel; Leo W. Gerard; Joseph T. Hansen; James P. Hoffa; Sandra Kennedy; David H. Long; Wade Randlett; Matthew Rubel; and David H. Segura. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as general trustees of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Bryan Lourd; Barbara Goodman Manilow; and Bryan Traubert. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan J. Helms as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Liza Gilbert as a member of the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts. The President declared a major disaster in Michigan and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from August 11 through 13. September 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Room, the President taped an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" program for a later broadcast. Later, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. September 27 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fort Belvoir, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. September 28 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Ashraf Ahmadzai Ghani as President of Afghanistan in Kabul, Afghanistan, on September 29: John D. Podesta (head of delegation); James B. Cunningham; John F. Campbell; Catherine M. Russell; Daniel Feldman; Jeff Eggers; Caroline Wadhams; Larry Sampler; Thomas J. Daley; and Miroslav Kazimir. September 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro. In the afternoon, at the Capital Hilton hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable event. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Vice President Biden had dinner with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Salerno to be a judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. September 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, on the National Mall, the President toured the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Thomas R. Frieden to receive an update on the recently diagnosed Ebola case in Dallas, TX, and discuss the isolation protocols under which the patient is being treated and ongoing efforts to trace the patient's contacts in order to mitigate the risk of additional cases. He also had a telephone conversation with Director of the U.S. Secret Service Julia A. Pierson to discuss the September 16 incident in which an armed private security guard with a criminal record boarded an elevator carrying the President during his visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, GA. Later in the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with the National Security Council to discuss the U.S. strategy to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization in Iraq and Syria. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on October 1 and Evanston, IL, on October 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Princeton, IN, on October 3. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from August 18 through 23. October 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, at Joe's Seafood, Prime Steak & Stone Crab restaurant, he had dinner with Newton, MA, resident Hannah Banks and her husband Howard and New York City resident Andrea Abrahams and a guest, winners of a "Dinner With President Obama" contest sponsored by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with outgoing Director of the U.S. Secret Service Julia A. Pierson to discuss her earlier resignation from the agency and express his appreciation for her tenure of service. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Acting Director of the U.S. Secret Service Joseph P. Clancy to thank him for accepting the position following the resignation of Director Julia A. Pierson In the evening, the President traveled to Gary, IN. Upon arrival, he traveled to Chicago, IL. Later, he traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence, where he remained overnight. The President announced his intention to appoint Dean C. Garfield, Harold McGraw III, and Bob Stallman as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Bradford J. White as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Lisa Borin Ogden as a member of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Inc. The President announced his intention to appoint Sakurako Fisher as a general trustee on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Maura Corby Sullivan as Assistant Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to appoint Naomi L. Nelson as a member of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission. The President announced that he has appointed Brad D. Smith as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability for Young Americans. The President announced that he has appointed Michèle A. Flournoy and Kevin Nealer as members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. October 2 In the morning, at a private resident, the President attended a campaign fundraiser for Gov. Patrick J. Quinn III of Illinois. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Evanston, IL. Later, he traveled to Gary, IN. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor Michael S. Rawlings of Dallas, TX, to discuss the local, State, and Federal response to the reported case of Ebola in Dallas and ensure city authorities had sufficient assistance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to treat the patient safely and control any possible further spread of the disease. October 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Princeton, IN. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Gen. David M. Rodriguez, USA, commander, U.S. Africa Command, to get an update on the U.S. military's response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Upon arrival in Princeton, he traveled to Millennium Steel Service, where he and Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker toured the facility with Millennium Steel Chief Executive Officer Henry Jackson and Operations Manager Luis Garza, Jr., and visited with employees. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City and Greenwich, CT, on October 7. October 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with the heads of Federal financial regulatory agencies and members of his economic team to discuss the national economy and ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a bill signing ceremony for H.R. 4994, the Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 27 through August 5. October 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he met with U.S. Secret Service Acting Director Joseph P. Clancy. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in an interview with Jeffrey Toobin of the New Yorker magazine. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, where, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he traveled to Greenwich, CT. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Los Angeles, CA, area on October 9. October 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia to discuss the Colombian Government's efforts to resolve its conflict with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) insurgent group, Colombia's contribution of troops to United Nations peacekeeping efforts, and Colombia-U.S. security cooperation. In the afternoon, the President participated in a teleconference call with State and local officials to discuss domestic preparedness and containment efforts in response to the West African Ebola epidemic. Later, at the Pentagon, he met with members of the National Security Council to discuss U.S. military operations against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Dimas, CA, and San Francisco, CA, on October 10. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter A. Barrows to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Sim Farar and William J. Hybl to be members of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. The President announced his intention to nominate David S. Shapira to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. O'Rielly to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Denise Moreno Ducheny as a member of the Board of Directors of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission and the North American Development Bank. The President announced his intention to appoint Kyle K. Hipsley as U.S. Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission, United States and Canada. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert G. Stanton as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Jody L. Williams as a Commissioner of the Bear River Commission. October 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Santa Monica, CA, where he toured the Cross Campus technology industry office facility and met with founders and employees of Noozcard Inc., Enervee Corp., and Third Place, Inc. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA, where he visited the campaign headquarters of Democratic congressional candidate Ted W. Lieu. During the visit, he met with State Sen. Lieu, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman Steve Israel, and campaign volunteers and staffers. In the evening, the President traveled to the W Los Angeles-Westwood Hotel, where he remained overnight. The President made additional disaster assistance available to the Santa Clara Pueblo by authorizing an increase in Federal funding for public assistance projects undertaken as a result of severe storms and flooding from September 13 through 16, 2013. The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from August 21 through 25. October 10 In the morning, in Los Angeles, CA, the President participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser at a private residence. In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Dimas, CA. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth C. Wesman as Chair of Presidential Emergency Board No. 247. The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara Deinhardt and David P. Twomey as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 247. October 11 In the morning, at a private residence, the President participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. October 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on the diagnosis of the first Ebola case contracted in the United States at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas in Dallas, TX. Then, , he had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell to receive an update on the coordinated response to the Ebola cases in Dallas and discuss theCenters for Disease Control and Prevention's investigation into infection control protocols, cooperation with State and local authorities, and implementation of Ebola containment protocols nationwide. The White House announced that the President will travel to Bridgeport, CT, on October 15. October 13 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss efforts to contain the Ebola epidemic in West Africa and the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization in Iraq and Syria. Then, , he had a telephone conversation with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations to discuss efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell, and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Thomas R. Frieden, who participated by phone, to receive an update on the response to the first case of Ebola contracted in the United States at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas in Dallas, TX, efforts to ensure the readiness of the Nation's health infrastructure to contain the virus, and the investigation into infection control protocols. The White House announced that the President will travel to Union, NJ, on October 15. The White House announced that the President will travel to Providence, RI, on October 16. October 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with local high school students to discuss their education and career goals. Then, on the White House basketball court, they played an impromptu game of horse.. Later, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the evening, the President traveled to McLean, VA, where, at a private residence, he participated in a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee roundtable fundraiser. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Long Island, NY, on October 16. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Bridgeport, CT, on October 15 had been canceled. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Union, NJ, on October 15 had been canceled. October 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Situation Room, he participated in a video conference with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the international response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, the international campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and Russia's obligations under the Minsk agreements to deescalate the situation in Ukraine. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to discuss international obligations of the Minsk agreements to achieve a political resolution to the conflict in Ukraine. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, the Trans Pacific Partnership negotiation process, and the security situation in Northeast Asia. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Providence, RI, on October 16 had been canceled. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Long Island, NY, on October 16 had been canceled. October 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stefan Löfven of Sweden to discuss the international response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss efforts to contain the Ebola virus. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to discuss the international response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa and the campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a teleconference call with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention employees to discuss the coordinated response to the second case of Ebola contracted in the United States at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas in Dallas, TX. Also in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. John R. Kasich to discuss precautions taken after a second Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas nurse, who had made a round trip between Dallas and Cleveland, was then diagnosed in Dallas with Ebola. In the evening, in the Oval Office, President Obama had a telephone conversation with Gov. J. Richard Perry to discuss the availability of resources in the event that additional cases of Ebola are diagnosed among Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas employees. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on October 19. The President designated the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Joko Widodo as President of Indonesia in Jakarta, Indonesia, on October 20: John F. Kerry (head of delegation); Robert O. Blake, Jr.; Daniel R. Russel; Carolyn Hessler-Radelet; Scot Marciel; and Mohamed Abdel-Kader. The President announced his intention to nominate Michelle K. Lee to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The President announced his intention to nominate Dava J. Newman to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint Victoria A. Espinel as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Deborah A. Phillips and Judith D. Singer as members of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences. The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy Rodriguez to be Director of the National Institute of Justice at the Department of Justice. October 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen to discuss democracy efforts in Yemen and joint efforts to suppress Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Ronald A. Klain to discuss his appointment as Ebola Response Coordinator. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with national security and public health advisers to receive an update on the tracing of individuals who had contact with Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas nurses Nina Pham and Amber Vinson and the availability of resources at State and local levels to prevent further spreading of the Ebola virus. Then, in the Situation Room, they met with the National Security Council to discuss the international campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. October 18 In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security and public health teams to receive an update on domestic Ebola response and containment efforts  whole-administration coordination with State and local authorities to address the Ebola cases in Dallas, TX.  Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Syria, international efforts to counter threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and joint Turkey-U.S. efforts to foster peace and stability in Afghanistan.  October 19 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Upper Marlboro, MD. In the evening, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. Later, he traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence,, where he remained overnight. October 20 In the morning, at theMartin Luther King Community Service Center, the President cast his ballot, greeted other voters, and chatted with volunteer campaign workers. Then, he stopped by Gov. Patrick J. Quinn III's campaign field office , where he visited with campaign volunteers and staffers.  In the afternoon, the President returned to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Capital Hilton hotel on December 3. October 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Special Assistant and Senior Director for Development and Democracy Gayle Smith and Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken. October 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to express his condolences for the deaths and injuries caused by the recent attacks on Canadian Armed Forces and Government buildings in Quebec and Ottawa and offered U.S. assistance and support in countering further attacks. Prior to the call, he was updated on the shootings at the Parliament building in Ottawa, Canada by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with health care workers at Texas Presbyterian Hospital Dallas in Dallas, TX, to thank them for their courage and perseverance in dealing with the first known cases of Ebola contracted in the U.S.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia to discuss the situation in Iraq, the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, and the upcoming G–20 Summit in Brisbane, Australia. October 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with members of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology (PCAST). Later, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser.  The President announced his intention to nominate Jay N. Lerner to be Inspector General of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Azita Raji to be Ambassador to Sweden. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Feuer to be a member of the National Board for Education Sciences. The President announced his intention to nominate Herbert Block, Richard H. Weisberg, and Gary P. Zola to be members of the U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. October 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Nina Pham, a nurse at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas in Dallas, TX, who was infected with the Ebola virus while providing care to Thomas E. Duncan, but was successfully treated and cleared of the disease. Then, at the State Department, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with the National Security Council to discuss the status of the U.S. strategy to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. Also at the State Department, he participated in a video teleconference with staff at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad and Consulates General in both Basra and Erbil to thank them for their hard work and dedication given the security situation in Iraq and commend their important work in implementing the strategy to counter ISIL.  In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and New York City Mayor Warren "Bill" de Blasio to discuss the reported Ebola case in New York City. The White House announced that the President will travel to Milwaukee, WI, on October 28. The President announced his designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the POLIN Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw, Poland, on October 28: Carolyn B. Maloney (head of delegation); Stephen D. Mull, Ira N. Forman; Lesley L. Weiss; Sharon A. Kershbaum; and Shoshana M. Lew. October 25 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fort Belvoir, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. October 26 In the afternoon, the President had a meeting with Cabinet members and senior advisers to discuss Ebola preparedness and containment efforts, including measures to protect health care workers. October 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership Steering Committee, a working group of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. Later, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with Cabinet members and senior advisers to discuss lessons learned from Hurricane Sandy and general Federal preparedness efforts and climate resilience measures. Then, in the Oval Office, he visited with Alyce Dixon, the oldest living African American female veteran of World War II. The White House announced that the President will travel to Portland, ME, on October 30. The White House announced that the President will travel to Providence, RI, on October 30. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor posthumously to 1st Lt. Alonzo H. Cushing, USA, in recognition of his valor during the Civil War on November 6. October 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil to congratulate her on her recent reelection and discuss Brazil-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he had a teleconference with members of the United States Agency for International Development's Disaster Assistance Response Team coordinating the U.S. response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Then, in the Cross Hall, he greeted the 2014 finalists of the Broadcom Math, Applied Science, Technology and Engineering Rising Stars (MASTERS) competition. Later, he traveled to Milwaukee, WI.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Umami Moto restaurant, where he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. In the evening, the President was briefed by White House Deputy Chief of Staff Anita Decker Breckenridge on the launch failure and explosion of Orbital Sciences Corp.'s Antares rocket in Wallops, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. October 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samantha Power. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Angela Faletra Menino, wife of former Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston, MA, to express his condolences for her husband's rapidly deteriorating health. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Detroit, MI, area on November 1. The White House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, on November 2. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from September 15 through 26. October 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later, he traveled to Portland, ME. Upon arrival, he traveled to Cape Elizabeth, ME, where at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. During the day, President had a telephone conversation with President Thein Sein of Burma to discuss his upcoming travel to Burma for the East Asia Summit and U.S.-ASEAN Summit, the status of Burma's ongoing political and economic reforms, the humanitarian situation in Rakhine State, and Burma-U.S. relations. He also had a separate telephone conversation with Member of Parliament and Leader of the National League for Democracy Party Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma to discuss the status of Burma's ongoing democracy efforts, the upcoming 2015 elections, and Burma-U.S. relations.  In the evening, the President traveled to Portland, ME. Later, he traveled to Warwick, RI. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Omni Providence Hotel in Providence, RI, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Bridgeport, CT, on November 2. October 31 In the morning, the President traveled to Rhode Island College, where he participated in a roundtable discussion on the national economy and women in the workplace with working mothers, small-business owners, and college students and faculty. In the afternoon, the President stopped at Gregg's Restaurant and Pub, where he and Rhode Island gubernatorial candidate Gina Raimondo greeted owner Bob Bacon, visited with staff and patrons, and purchased lunch and dessert. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. Later, on the South Portico, he and Mrs. Obama greeted local schoolchildren and children of U.S. servicemembers trick-or-treating at the White House for Halloween. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Berteau to be Assistant Secretary for Logistics and Materiel Readiness at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Leigh A. Bradley to be General Counsel at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Mona Dixon to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Scarano to be Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Jeffrey Bleich as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.  The President announced his intention to appoint Michael K. Goto as U.S. Commissioner of the Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean.  The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Lou Leary as Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to appoint A. William Ritter as U.S. Representative of the Western Interstate Nuclear Board. The President announced his intention to appoint William Sabol as Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics at the Department of Justice. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding on September 9 and 10. November 1 In the afternoon, the President had a teleconference call with U.S. servicemembers participating in the military mission to contain the Ebola epidemic in West Africa to thank them for their service. Later, he traveled to Detroit, MI. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Manager Bruce Bochy of Major League Baseball's San Francisco Giants to congratulate him on his team's victory in the World Series. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. November 2 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bridgeport, CT. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. November 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with members of his economic team and senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Federal Reserve Chair Janet L. Yellen to discuss the national economy and implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Later, in the Doctor's Office, he participated in separate radio interviews with Frank Ski of WHUR in Washington, DC, Earl Stokes of WJMR in Milwaukee, WI, Konan of WERQ in Baltimore, MD, U.B. Rodriguez of WGCI in Chicago, IL, "No Limit" Larry Mims of WPEG in Charlotte, NC, Mildred Gaddis of WCHB in Detroit, MI, Artie Goins and Dwayne "Fly Ty" Wade of WBAV in Charlotte, NC, Mike Chandler of WFMI in Elizabeth City, NC, Brian "B-Daht" McLaughlin of WJMH in Greensboro, NC, and Larry Young of WOLB in Baltimore, MD. The President declared a major disaster in Hawaii and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the Pu'u 'O'o volcanic eruption and lava flow beginning September 4 and continuing. November 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde. Then, in the Doctor's Office, he participated in separate radio interviews with Reggie Brown of WKKV in Milwaukee, WI, Frankie Darcell of WMXD in Detroit, MI, and WDAS in Philadelphia, PA, Rick Party of WHQT in Miami, FL, and Colin McEnroe of WNPR in Hartford, CT. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with the President's national security and public health teams to receive an update on Ebola response and containment efforts. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew and National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi; Sens. Richard J. Durbin, Michael F. Bennet, Lindsey O. Graham, James M. Inhofe, Susan M. Collins, Edward J. Markey, Jefferson B. Sessions III, Cory A. Booker, Timothy E. Scott, Alan S. Franken, and Mark L. Pryor; Rep. Deborah Wasserman Schultz; Govs. John R. Kasich, Robert J. Bentley, and William E. Haslam; and senatorial, congressional, and gubernatorial candidates M. Michael Rounds, Shelly Moore Capito, Gary C. Peters, James Lankford, Thomas B. Cotton, Seth W. Moulton, W. Asa Hutchinson, and Thomas W. Wolf to discuss the results of the midterm elections. The White House announced that the President will travel to China, Burma, and Australia from November 10 through 16. November 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with members of the U.S. Public Health Service Commission Corps stationed at the Monrovia Medical Unit in Monrovia, Liberia, to commend their efforts to treat health care workers infected with Ebola and thank them for their service. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert A. McDonald and Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs Sloan D. Gibson to discuss ongoing efforts to improve health care for veterans and strengthen accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President dropped by a meeting between White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett and civil rights leaders. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell; Sens. Mark R. Warner, Jeanne C. Shaheen, and Mary L. Landrieu; Rep. Steny H. Hoyer; Govs. Dannel P. Malloy, John W. Hickenlooper, and Patrick J. Quinn III; and senatorial and gubernatorial candidates Benjamin E. Sasse, Joni K. Ernst, Cory S. Gardner, Gregory W. Abbott, Charles J. Crist, Jr., Mary P. Burke, Anthony G. Brown, Paul T. Davis, and Bruce V. Rauner to discuss the results of the midterm elections. The President declared a major disaster in Arizona and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from September 7 through 9. The President declared a major disaster in Nevada and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from September 7 through 9. November 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama met with the U.S. Little League champion Jackie Robinson West All Stars of Chicago, IL, to congratulate them on reaching the Little League World Series. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael A. Strautmanis as a member of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities. The President announced his intention to appoint Lorna M. Johnson as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Lisa M. Caputo and Elizabeth B. Castor as members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. November 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy; Sens. Charles E. Schumer, Patricia L. Murray, John R. Thune, John Cornyn, and John A. Barrasso; and Reps. Steny H. Hoyer, Xavier Becerra, and Cathy McMorris Rodgers Later in the afternoon, in the JFK Conference Room in the Situation Room, the President participated in a teleconference call with Gov. J. Richard Perry, State Health Services Commissioner David L. Lakey, and Dallas County Judge Clay L. Jenkins of Texas, and Mayor Michael S. Rawlings of Dallas, TX, to discuss the end of the 21-day waiting period for those potentially exposed to Ebola through contact with Thomas E. Duncan, who died on October 8, or nurses Nina Pham and Amber Vinson of Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas, who treated Duncan. He thanked them for their leadership and praised the cooperation between Federal, State, and local officials as a national model for containing Ebola. Then, in the Oval Office, he participated in a television interview with Bob Schieffer of CBS's "Face the Nation" program, which was taped for later broadcast. During the day, the President received an update from Department of Justice officials on the situation in Ferguson, MO. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Jeremiah W. "Jay" Nixon of Missouri to discuss the situation in Ferguson, MO. The President announced his intention to nominate Antony J. Blinken to be Deputy Secretary of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Adewale Adeyemo to be Assistant Secretary for International Markets and Development at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate David A. Jones to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael D. Kennedy to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, and upon appointment, to designate him as Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate Marisa Lago to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to nominate Nicholas J. Rasmussen to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. November 9 Early in the morning, the President traveled to Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage, AK. Then, he traveled to Beijing, China, arriving the following morning. November 10 In the morning, upon arrival in Beijing, China, the President traveled to the Westin Beijing Chaoyang hotel. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Later, he met with veterans and active duty servicemembers to mark Veterans Day ahead of November 11. Then, he traveled to the China National Convention Center. In the evening, the President traveled to the National Aquatics Center—Water Cube, where he was greeted by President Xi Jinping of China and his wife Peng Liyuan. Then, he participated in an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation family photograph and attended a welcome banquet. He also had a brief private conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia. Later, he traveled to the Westin Beijing Chaoyang hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medals of Freedom on November 24. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the funeral of President Michael Chilufya Sata of Zambia in Lusaka, Zambia, on November 10: Eric T. Schultz (head of delegation); and Susan Brems. November 11 In the morning, the President traveled to the outskirts of Beijing, where, at the Yanqi Lake International Conference Centre, he attended an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) welcoming ceremony. Later, also at the Conference Centre, he participated in an APEC family photograph and tree planting ceremony. He also had a telephone conversation with Craig A. Spencer, an American doctor who contracted Ebola while treating patients infected with the disease in Guinea, to commend his recovery and express support for those serving as health care workers on the front lines of the epidemic in West Africa. In the afternoon, at the Yanqi Lake International Conference Centre, the President had a working lunch with APEC leaders. Then, he attended the second plenary session. During the day, at the Yanqi Lake International Conference Centre, the President had three brief private conversations with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situations in Iran, Syria, and Ukraine. In the evening, the President returned to central Beijing, where, at Zhongnanhai, he walked and talked with President Xi Jinping of China in the former imperial garden. Then, also at Zhongnanhai, in President Xi's residence, he met with President Xi and had a private dinner with him. Later, he traveled to the Westin Beijing Chaoyang hotel, where he remained overnight. The President announced the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe Berlin Conference on Anti-Semitism 10th Anniversary Commemoration in Berlin, Germany, on November 13: Samantha Power (head of delegation); John B. Emerson; Daniel Baer; Melissa Rogers; Ira N. Forman; Deborah Lipstadt; and Abraham H. Foxman. November 12 In the morning, the President traveled to the Great Hall of the People, where he participated in an official  arrival ceremony. In the afternoon, in the Great Hall of the People, the President attended a state banquet. Then, also in the Great Hall of the People, he had separate meetings with Premier Li Keqiang of China and Zhang Dejiang, Standing Committee Chair of the National People's Congress . Later, he traveled to Nay Pyi Taw, Burma, arriving in the evening. In the evening, upon arrival in Nay Pyi Taw, Burma, the President traveled to the Kempinski Hotel Nay Pyi Taw. Later, he traveled to the Myanmar International Convention Center, where, in the lobby, he participated in an East Asia Summit family photo. Then, he attended a gala dinner. Late in the evening, the President returned to the Kempinski Hotel Nay Pyi Taw, where he remained overnight. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Elliott III to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Lauren McFerran to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to nominate John Mendez to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, and upon appointment, to designate him as Chair. The President announced his intention to nominate Antonio Weiss to be Under Secretary for Domestic Finance at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced that he has nominated Dale A. Drozd to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Lashann Moutique DeArcy Hall to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Luis F. Restrepo to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Kara Farnandez Stoll to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Michael Greco to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of New York. November 13 In the morning, the President traveled to the Myanmar International Convention Center, where he participated in an East Asia Summit family photo. Then, also at the Convention Center, he participated in an East Asia Summit plenary session. In the afternoon, at the Myanmar International Convention Center, the President met Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung of Vietnam. Later, he traveled to a parliamentary resource center. Then, he returned to the Kempinski Hotel Nay Pyi Taw. During the day, at the the Kempinski Hotel Nay Pyi Taw, the President greeted hotel employees and participants in a vendors' fair. In the evening, the President traveled to the Presidential Palace. Then, he returned to the Kempinski Hotel Nay Pyi Taw, where he remained overnight. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffery M. Baran to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Elissa Slotkin to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs at the Department of Defense. November 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Rangoon, Burma, where he toured the former Secretariat Building with Thant Myint-U, chairman of the Yangon Heritage Trust and special adviser to the Myanmar Peace Center, and viewed the memorial dedicated to General Aung San and six cabinet ministers who were killed on the premises on July 19, 1947. Then, he traveled to the residence of Member of Parliament and Leader of the National League for Democracy Party Leader Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the U.S. Embassy in Rangoon, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he met with Peace Corps Director Carolyn Hessler-Radelet and Regional Director Keri Lowry. Later, he traveled to the University of Yangon. In the evening, the President traveled to the Royal Australian Air Force Base Amberley in Ipswich, Australia, arriving early the next morning. The White House announced that the President will host a "ConnectED to the Future" event on November 19. November 15 Upon arrival, he traveled to the Brisbane Marriott Hotel in Brisbane. Later, he traveled to Parliament House, where he participated in a meeting with  Group of Twenty (G–20) leaders.  In the afternoon, at Parliament House, the President attended a G–20 leaders' lunch. Later, he traveled to the Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre, where he participated in the welcoming ceremony for the 2014 G–20 summit, followed by the first plenary session. Then, he participated in an official photograph with G–20 leaders. In the evening, at the Queensland Art Gallery/Gallery of Modern Art, the President attended a Group of Twenty (G–20) reception, working dinner, and cultural program. Later, he returned to the Brisbane Marriott Hotel, where he remained overnight.  November 16 In the morning, the President traveled to the Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre, where he had a trilateral meeting with Prime Ministers Anthony J. Abbott of Australia and Shinzo Abe of Japan. Later, he participated in two plenary sessions for the Group of Twenty (G–20) summit.   In the afternoon, The President participated in aG–20 working lunch.  In the evening, the President traveled to Joint Base Pearl Harbor—Hickam, HI, crossing the international dateline and arriving the same morning. Then, also in the morning, he continued to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force Once, he received a briefing from National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the killing of U.S. aid worker Abdul-Rahman  Kassig, by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. November 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.   November 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they received an update on U.S. Ebola response and containment efforts from the President's national security and public health teams. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. November 19 During the day, the President met with Minister of the National Guard Prince Mitib bin Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations, international efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, Saudi Arabia-Iraq relations, political stability in Yemen, the international response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, and ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. In the evening, the President hosted a dinner for Democratic Members of Congress at the White House to discuss his executive action on immigration reform. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, on November 21. The White House announced that the President will award the 2013 National Medals of Science and National Medals of Technology and Innovation on November 20. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew Butler to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark R. Rosekind to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced that he has appointed Darryl J. Madden, Kent D. Savre, and Robert M. Sussman, as members of the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin. November 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the We restaurant, the President and Mrs. Obama,  had lunch with members of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe youth. November 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV, arriving in the afternoon   In the afternoon, at Del Sol High School, the President taped an interview with George Stephanopoulos for ABC News' "This Week" program for later broadcast. Later, he traveled to Henderson, NV, where he remained overnight. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan to discuss Pakistan-U.S. relations, regional stabilization efforts, and their commitment to counterterrorism measures.  The White House announced that the President will hold the Thanksgiving turkey pardoning ceremony at the White House on November 26. The White House announced that the President will travel to India in January 2015. November 22 In the morning, the President traveled to North Las Vegas, NV. In the afternoon, the President returned to Henderson, NV, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on November 25. November 23 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. November 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with 2014 Nobel Prize laureates Eric Betzig, William E. Moerner, Shuji Nakamura, and John O'Keefe. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. November 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., to discuss the situation in Ferguson, MO. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Capital Hilton on December 3.  The President announced his intention to appoint John P. Bilbrey as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Brian Greenspun as a member of Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. The President announced his intention to appoint Andrés W. López as a General Trustee on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Emma Sepulveda as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. November 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Bread for the City food pantry the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia, and Mrs. Obama's mother Marian Robinson participated in a service event. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss President Obama's executive actions to reform the U.S. immigration system, joint efforts to help Central American countries address the influx of causes of emigrants, and efforts to deter illegal immigration, including the smuggling of unaccompanied children. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Abdullah II of Jordan on December 5. November 27 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with deployed U.S. servicemembers from each branch of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service and wish them a happy Thanksgiving. He also had a teleconference with U.S. servicemembers working in Liberia to contain the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. November 29 In the afternoon, at Politics and Prose Bookstore, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia visited with patrons, purchased books, and promoted Small Business Saturday. December 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew, Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert O. Work, and White House Office of National Drug Control Policy Acting Director Michael P. Botticelli to discuss Federal programs and funding that provide equipment to State and local law enforcement agencies. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with young national and local civil rights leaders. Also in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Attorney General Holder met with Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey of Philadelphia, PA, and George Mason University Professor of Criminology, Law, and Society Laurie Robinson, Cochairs of a Presidential task force on strengthening relations between law enforcement and local communities. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Donald Tusk of the European Council to congratulate him on his first day in office and discuss European Union-U.S. relations, ongoing negotiations regarding the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership agreement, the situation in Ukraine, international sanctions against Russia, and the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, MD, on December 2. The White House announced that the President, Vice President Biden, and Mrs. Obama will host the College Opportunity Day of Action at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center on December 4. December 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with 12 tribal leaders from around the Nation to discuss issues of importance to Indian Country ahead of the Tribal Nations Conference. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families. Later, at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, he toured the Vaccine Research Center with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell, National Institutes of Health Director Francis S. Collins, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony S. Fauci, and Biodefense Research Section Chief Nancy Sullivan. During the tour, he met with scientists conducting Ebola vaccine and treatment research. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, at the St. Regis Washington, D.C. Hotel, the President participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. December 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., to discuss the grand jury decision regarding the death of Eric Garner, who died during an attempted arrest by New York City police officers on July 17. Also in the Oval Office, he met with White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett , White House Counsel W. Neil Eggleston, Director of Communications Jennifer Palmeiri, and Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest to discuss the grand jury decision. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden met with military leadership and combatant commanders. Also in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, at the Blair House, the President hosted a dinner for military leadership, combatant commanders, and their spouses. Mrs. Obama, Vice President Biden, and his wife Jill T. Biden also attended. December 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor Warren "Bill" de Blasio of New York City to discuss the grand jury decision in the death of Eric Garner, who died during an attempted arrest by New York City police officers on July 17. The President praised Mayor de Blasio's leadership, commended New Yorkers for their peaceful and constructive response to the decision, and pledged to work with the mayor to strengthen relations between law enforcement and local communities nationwide. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Summit on Early Education on December 10. The President announced his intention to appoint Gilbert Cisneros as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Brodi L. Fontenot as Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to appoint W. Don Nelson as U.S. Representative to the Kansas-Nebraska Big Blue River Compact Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint Nathalie Rayes as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Daniel Rosen as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint James T. Rizzuto as Federal Representative to the Arkansas River Compact Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint Edward Weissman as U.S. Commissioner of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission. December 5 During the day, in the Cabinet Room, the President taped an interview with Jeffrey I. Johnson of BET News for later broadcast. Also during the day, in the Oval Office, the President greeted King Abdullah II of Jordan and his son Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II, a student at Georgetown University. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, of the United Kingdom on December 8. The White House announced that the President will travel to Nashville, TN, on December 9. December 6 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he had a fiberoptic laryngoscopy and computerized tomographic (CT) scan of his throat. December 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, of the United Kingdom, to thank him for the Royal Family's hospitality during his recent visits to the United Kingdom and discuss United Kingdom-U.S. relations. Later, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with approximately 20 middle school students from Newark, NJ, and Brooklyn, NY, who were participating in an "Hour of Code" event to publicize the start of Computer Science Education Week. In the afternoon, in the Lisner Auditorium at George Washington University, the President taped a television interview before a live audience with Stephen T. Colbert for Comedy Central's "The Colbert Report" for later broadcast. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz of Poland to discuss the situation in Ukraine and thank him for Poland's contributions to U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. December 9 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Nashville, TN, where, in the Global Education Center dance studio at Casa Azafrán, he taped separate television interviews with José Díaz-Balart of MSNBC's "The Rundown with José Díaz-Balart" program and Jorge Ramos of the Fusion Media Network's "AMERICA With Jorge Ramos" program for later broadcast. Then, at La Hacienda Taqueria, he purchased lunch and visited with owners Carlos and Lillian Yepez, employees, and patrons. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President participated in a video conference with President Ghani and Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah of Afghanistan to discuss the drawdown of the U.S. combat mission in Afghanistan, the transition of coalition forces to the Resolute Support mission, ongoing support and training for the Afghan National Security Forces, and U.S. and regional support for the Afghan-led peace process. He also praised their successful ministerial conferences in Belgium and the United Kingdom and the ratification of the bilateral security and NATO status of forces agreements. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Summit on Early Childhood Education in the South Court Auditorium at the Eisenhower Executive Building on December 10. The President announced the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the World War II Battle of the Bulge 70th Anniversary Commemoration Events in Bastogne, Belgium, on December 13: Thomas R. Nides (head of delegation); Denise Campbell Bauer; Brad R. Carson; Philip M. Breedlove; Montgomery C. Meigs; and Thomas J. Brokaw. December 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. December 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing with Director of Central Intelligence John O. Brennan. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President participated in a photographic opportunity with the fall class of White House interns. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Democratic Members of Congress to facilitate passage of continuing appropriations legislation. Also during the day, in the Oval Office, he met with U.S. Ambassador to India Richard R. Verma. In the Diplomatic Reception Room, he greeted the Patt Holt Singers during a private holiday reception performance. December 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he participated in a live telephone interview with Colin Cowherd of ESPN Radio's "The Herd" program. He also taped separate telephone interviews with Brian Dawson of WQOK's "Afternoon Traffic Jam" program and Ryan Seacrest of KISS's "On Air" program to promote health care enrollment under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Interior Minister Prince Muhammad bin Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss counterterrorism efforts and regional security issues, including the threat posed by terrorist organizations Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula and Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, the conflicts in Iraq and Syria, support for the new Yemeni Government, and topics related to Iran. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President greeted members of the Four Tops and members of the Temptations. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico on January 6. December 13 The White House announced that the President will travel to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ, on December 15. December 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. December 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Joseph E. Kurtz, Archbishop of Louisville, KY, and president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Situation Room, they met with the National Security Council to review potential threats to the U.S. homeland and U.S. personnel overseas during the upcoming holidays, receive an update on security preparations throughout the country, discuss efforts to monitor the potential for violent reactions overseas to the release of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence's report on the Central Intelligence Agency's former detention and interrogation programs, and examine the U.S. security posture in Pakistan following the terrorist attack at the army-run school in Peshawar.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to congratulate him on his party's victory in the December 14 parliamentary elections and discuss Japan-U.S. relations. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott of Australia to offer his condolences for the victims of the December 15 hostage crisis at Lindt Chocolate Cafe  in Sydney and reiterate U.S. readiness to provide any necessary assistance.  Also, in the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan to offer his condolences for the December 16 terrorist attack at an army-run school in Peshawar, Pakistan.  December 17 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President taped an interview with David Muir of ABC News' "World News" program for later broadcast. December 18 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abdelfattah Said Elsisi of Egypt to discuss Egypt-U.S. relations, regional issues, and the importance of continued joint counterterrorism efforts. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Haydar al-Abadi of Iraq to discuss the political and security situation in Iraq, reiterate the U.S. commitment to train and assist the Iraqi security forces in their effort to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and commend the Prime Minister's efforts to create an inclusive Government and build a united Iraqi front to fight against ISIL. The President announced his intention to appoint Charles H. Ramsey and Laurie Robinson as Cochairs of the President's Task Force on 21st-Century Policing. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Task Force on 21st-Century Policing: Cedric L. Alexander; Jose Lopez; Tracey Meares; Brittany Packnett: Susan Rahr, Constance Rice; Sean Smoot; Bryan Stevenson; and Roberto Villasenor. December 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Honolulu, HI. Upon arrival at Joint Base Pearl Harbor—Hickam, they traveled to their vacation residence in Kailua, HI. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Dilma Rousseff as President of Brazil in Brasilia, Brazil, on January 1, 2015: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); Liliana Ayalde; Roberta S. Jacobson; and Ricardo Zuniga. December 20 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. During the day, the President received a briefing on the murder of New York City Police Officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael L. Ramos in Brooklyn. December 21 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with New York City Police Commissioner William J. Bratton to express condolences for the December 20 murder of New York City Police Officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael L. Ramos in Brooklyn and offer Federal assistance. Later, he traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey, in his capacity as Cochair of the President's Task Force on 21st-Century Policing, to discuss the December 20 murder of New York City Police Officers Liu and Ramos, offer Federal assistance where needed, reiterate his respect for the service and dedication of law enforcement officers, and express his support for Commissioner Ramsey's continued public calls condemning violence. In the evening, the President traveled to Waikiki, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua. December 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua. The President announced his intention to nominate Sally Q. Yates to be Deputy Attorney General. The President announced his intention to appoint Dawn Halfaker as a member of the Board of Governors of United Service Organizations, Inc. The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Minow as a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, and flooding from November 17 through 26. December 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Then, he traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua. Later, he and his daughter Malia traveled to the Makapu'u Point Lighthouse Trail in southeastern Oahu. Then, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. During the day, the President was briefed on the hospitalization of former President George H.W. Bush. December 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Then, he traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, where he played golf with Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia. He and Prime Minister Najib also discussed Malaysia-U.S. relations and Malaysia's upcoming chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with deployed U.S. servicemembers from each branch of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service and dedication. December 25 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. December 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Royal Hawaiian Golf Club in Kailua. Later, he returned to his vacation residence. December 27 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Honolulu, HI, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President received a briefing on the crash of AirAsia Flight 8501 in the Java Sea. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. December 28 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro to congratulate him and his wife Erica on the birth of their son Cristian Julián Castro. December 29 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Mid-Pacific Country Club in Kailua. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence. December 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Waialua, HI. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. December 31 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua. Names: Abadi, Haider al-; Abbas, Mahmoud; Abbott, Anthony J.; Abbott, Gregory W.; Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, King; Abdel-Kader, Mohamed; Abdul Halim Mu'adzam Shah, King; Abdul Rashid bin Md Isa; Abdullah II, King; Abdullah, Abdullah; Abe, Shinzo; Abney, David P.; Abrahams, Andrea; Abrams, Leslie J.; Adams, Charles C., Jr.; Adams, William "Bro"; Adeyemo, Adewale; Adkins, Bennie G.; Adler, Robert S.; Admati, Anat; Ahmad, N. Nina; Akers, Michelle; Akihito, Emperor; Al Hussein bin Abdullah II, Prince; Al Kuwari, Mohammed Jaham A.A.; al-Abadi, Haydar; Alcantara, Betsaida; Aldrin, Edwin E. "Buzz," Jr.; Alexander, Cedric L.; Allen, Craig B.; Allen, John R. ; Alonso, Jorge L.; Altschul Fuentes, Francisco Roberto; Alverson, Robert D.; Andersen, Carl K.; Anderson, Aaron; Anderson, John; Andrews, Bruce H.; Aponte, Mari del Carmen; Appell, Jill; Aquino, Benigno S., III; Araud, Gerard; Arleo, Madeline Cox; Armstrong, Carol; Ashmore-Hudson, Anne; Athey, Susan; Atkinson, Caroline; Audibert, Jacques; Aung San Suu Kyi; Auriemma, Geno; Austin, Lloyd J., III; Axelrod, David M.; Axelrod, Susan; Ayalde, Liliana; Azrack, Joan M.; Bachelet Jeria, Michelle; Bacon, Bob; Baer, Daniel; Baer, Daniel B.; Baily, Jess L.; Baker, James A., III; Ballentine, Miranda A. A.; Balsiger, James W.; Ban Ki-moon; Banks, Hannah; Banks, Howard; Baran, Jeffery M.; Barbee, Kevin; Bard, Allen J.; Barkley, Charles; Barnett, Mickey D.; Barrasso, John A.; Barroso, José Manuel Durão; Barrows, Walter A.; Bass, John R.; Bass, Karen R.; Bassett, Leslie A.; Batta, Todd A.; Bauer, Denise Campbell; Bay, Norman C.; Beachy, Roger N.; Becerra, Xavier; Bechara Boutros Al Rai, Patriarch; Beck, Allison; Beck, Theodore J.; Beebe, Michael D.; Beecroft, Robert S.; Beetlestone, Wendy; Benjamin, Tanei; Bennet, Michael F.; Bennett, Alfred H.; Bentley, Arthur L., III; Bentley, Robert J.; Benton, Charles; Bergdahl, Bowe R.; Bergdahl, Jani; Bergdahl, Robert; Berger, Samuel R. "Sandy"; Bergsten, C. Fred; Berman, Francine; Bernicat, Marcia Stevens Bloom; Berns, Peter V.; Berteau, David J.; Berzins, Andris; Betzig, Eric; Biden, Jill T.; Biden, Joseph R. Jr.; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Biggs, Heidi; Biggs, Loretta Copeland; Bilbrey, John P.; Birotte, André, Jr.; Birx, Deborah L.; Black, Sherry Salway; Blackford, Paul; Blackwell, Angela Glover; Blair, Bonnie; Blake, Robert O., Jr.; Blakey, John R.; Bleich, Jeffrey; Blinder, Alan S.; Blinken, Antony J.; Blitzstein, David S.; Block, Herbert; Block, Sharon; Bloom, Beth; Bloomberg, Michael R.; Blumenthal, Gary; Boehner, John A.; Boitano, Brian A.; Bolden, Victor A.; Bolduan, Kate; Bolsinger, Lorraine; Bond, Michele Thoren; Bonilla, Armando O.; Booker, Cory A.; Borin, Howard Z.; Boston, Orlan; Botticelli, Michael P.; Bough, Stephen R.; Boulware, Richard F., II; Bowman, Barbara T.; Boxer, Barbara; Boyd, Gwendolyn E.; Bradley, Leigh A.; Bradsher, Tanya J.; Brainard, Lael; Braitmayer, Karen L.; Brandt, Jack M.; Brantly, Amber J.; Brantly, Kent; Bratton, William J.; Brazile, Donna L.; Breckenridge, Anita Decker; Breedlove, Philip M.; Brems, Susan; Brennan, John O.; Brett, James T.; Brewer, Janice K.; Bridge, Anthony R.; Brokaw, Thomas J.; Brookins, Peggy L.; Brooks, Douglas M.; Brothers, L. Reginald, Jr.; Brown, Anthony G.; Brown, Dustin; Brown, Edmund G. "Jerry," Jr.; Brown, Manson K.; Brown, Reggie; Brundage, Amy J.; Bryant, John H.; Brynjolfsson, Erik; Brzezinski, Mika; Brzezinski, Zbigniew K.; Bullock, Steve; Bumphus, Walter G.; Burke, Mary P.; Burns, Ken; Burns, Stephen; Burns, William J.; Burroughs, Allison Dale; Burrows, Charlotte; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Bush, George H.W.; Bush, Mike; Butler, Matthew; Butt, Donald J.; Button, Kinsey; Butts, Cassandra Q.; Bycel, Lee T.; Byron, Paul G.; Byun, Michael; Cacioppo, John T.; Cahow, Caitlin; Cahow, Caitlin K.; Cameron, David; Campbell, John F.; Cancian, Maria; Canegallo, Kristie A.; Cannon, Patrick D.; Cantor, Eric I.; Cantwell, Maria E.; Capito, Shelly Moore; Capone, Kenneth; Caputo, Lisa M.; Cardin, Benjamin L.; Carpenter, Seth B.; Carpenter, William "Kyle"; Carroll, Pete; Carson, Brad R.; Caslen, Robert L., Jr.; Castor, Elizabeth B.; Castro Ramírez, Lourdes M.; Castro, Cristian J.; Castro, Erica; Castro, Julián; Catherine, Anaya; Cefkin, Judith Bell; Cekuta, Robert F.; Chafee, Lincoln D.; Chandler, Mike; Chandler, Subjects: ;  Missouri : Disaster assistance; "Hoops for Troops" initiative; "Legislation, enacted : Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act; /"Weather From the White House/" program; ABC News : "Word News" program; ABC News : /"This Week/" program; Administrative Conference of the United States, Council of the; Afghanistan : Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : Badakhshan Province landslide, damage and recovery efforts; Afghanistan : Bagram Air Base; Afghanistan : Chief Executive Officer; Afghanistan : Elections; Afghanistan : Former regime; Afghanistan : International assistance; Afghanistan : International Security Assistance Force; Afghanistan : International Security Assistance Force ; Afghanistan : NATO, role; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : President Obama's visit; Afghanistan : President-elect; Afghanistan : Presidential election; Afghanistan : Presidential elections; Afghanistan : Reconciliation efforts; Afghanistan : Relations with U.S.; Afghanistan : Security cooperation with U.S.; Afghanistan : Sgt. Bowe R. Bergdahl, USA, release from captivity by Taliban forces; Afghanistan : Shooting at Marshal Fahim National Defense University in Kabul; Afghanistan : U.S. Ambassador; Afghanistan : U.S. assistance; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Afghanistan: Former regime; Africa : Ebola outbreak, response and containment efforts; Africa : Relations with U.S.; Africa : U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit; Africa : Weft Africa, Ebola epidemic, response and containment efforts; Africa : West Africa, Ebola epidemic, response and containment efforts; African Development Bank; African Development Foundation; Agriculture : Severe drought, relief efforts; Agriculture, Department of : Congressional Relations, Assistant Secretary for; Agriculture, Department of : Rural Development, Under Secretary for; Agriculture, Department of : Secretary; Air Force, Department of the : Financial Management, Assistant Secretary for; Air Force, Department of the : General Counsel; Air Force, Department of the : Installations, Environment, and Logistics, Assistant Secretary for; Air Force, Department of the : MacDill Air Force Base; Alabama, disaster assistance; Alaska : President's visit; Alaska, disaster assistance; Alaska, President's visit; Algeria, U.S. Ambassador; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Native American Youth; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Santa Clara Pueblo, disaster assistance; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; American Indians and Alaska Natives : White House Tribal Nations Conference; American Indians and Native Alaskans: Tribal leaders, meeting with President; American Legion Boys and Girls State; American Public Media, "Marketplace Morning Report" program; American States, Organization of; America's Heritage Abroad, Commission for the Preservation of; America's Heritage Abroad, U.S. Commission for the Preservation of; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board; Arizona : Disaster assistance; Arizona : Governor; Arizona : KPHO in Phoenix; Arkansas : Disaster assistance; Arkansas : Governor; Arkansas : President's visit; Arkansas : Tornado, damage and recovery efforts; Arkansas : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Arkansas River Compact Administration; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Deployment; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Armed Forces, U.S.: Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armenia, Ambassador to U.S.; Armenia, U.S. Ambassador; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Nuclear Security Summit; Army, Department of : Chief of Staff; Army, Department of the : Financial Management, Assistant Secretary for; Army, Department of the : General Counsel; Army, Department of the : Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Army, Department of the : Shootings at Fort Hood; Army, Department of the : U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY; Arts : "The Monuments Men," White House screening; Arts, Commission of Fine; Arts, National Council on the; Arts, National Endowment for the; Asia : Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); Asia : Crash of AirAsia Flight 8501 in Java Sea; Asia : East Asia Summit; Asia : Relations with U.S.; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, business and faith leaders, meeting with President; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, President's Advisory Commission on; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC); Australia : Brisbane :: Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre; Australia : Brisbane :: Brisbane Marriott Hotel; Australia : Brisbane :: Parliament House; Australia : Brisbane :: Queensland Art Gallery/Gallery of Modern Art; Australia : President Obama's visit; Australia : Prime Minister; Australia : Royal Australian Air Force Base Amberley in Ipswich; Australia : Terrorist attack in Sydney; Azerbaijan, U.S. Ambassador; Bahamas, U.S. Ambassador; Bahrain, U.S. Ambassador; Bangladesh, Ambassador to U.S.; Bangladesh, U.S. Ambassador; Battle Monuments Commission, American; Bear River Commission; Belgium : Brussels :: Justus Lipsius Building; Belgium : Brussels :: Royal Palace of Brussels; Belgium : Brussels :: The Hotel; Belgium : King; Belgium : President Obama's visit; Belgium : President Obama's visits; Belgium : Prime Minister; Belgium : The Hotel in Brussels; Belgium : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Belgium : World War I Centennial Commemoration in Liege; Belgium Flanders Field American Cemetery and Memorial in Waregem; Belgium, Ambassador to U.S.; BET News; Border Environment Cooperation Commission; Border Health Commission, U.S.-Mexico; Botswana, U.S. Ambassador; Boundary Commission, U.S. and Canada, International; Brazil : 2014 FIFA World Cup; Brazil : 2014 World Cup; Brazil : President; Brazil : Relations with U.S.; Broadcasting Board of Governors; Broadcom Math, Applied Science, Technology and Engineering Rising Stars (MASTERS) competition; Brunei, U.S. Ambassador; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Continuation; Budget, Federal : Deficit and national debt; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2015 budget ; Burma : Democracy efforts; Burma : Minority rights and ethnic tolerance; Burma : Nay Pyi Taw :: Kempinski Hotel Nay Pyi Taw; Burma : Nay Pyi Taw :: Myanmar International Convention Center; Burma : Nay Pyi Taw :: Parliamentary resource center; Burma : Nay Pyi Taw :: Presidential Palace; Burma : President; Burma : President Obama's visit; Burma : Rangoon :: Secretariat Building; Burma : Rangoon :: University of Yangon; Burma : Relations with U.S.; Burma : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Business and industry : ; Business and industry : Information technology 