Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 6 (Monday, February 11, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 6 (Monday, February 11, 2002)]
[Pages 184-185]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Returning From Pittsburgh and an Exchange With Reporters

February 5, 2002

Stimulus Package

    The President. I was just informed that the Senate will not vote out 
a stimulus package. I'm very disappointed. There's a lot of workers who 
hurt, and they need help. Our economy, while there's some good news, 
needs more stimulus. I still think we need to pass a bill that will help 
workers and help stimulate the economy. You know, we got a good bill out 
of the House, and I believe that we had a good chance to get a good bill 
out of the Senate last fall; there was enough votes to pass the bill. 
And I'm just disappointed. I think--I think we need a good stimulus 
package.
    Q. [Inaudible]--for a regular breakfast this week?
    The President. No, no, we're meeting next week. But I mean, I don't 
need to have a meeting, a breakfast to express my disappointment. I'm 
disappointed. I think people need to--workers need help, and I think we 
need to stimulate the economy with some wise policy. And we're working 
hard on this issue. I talked about it--gosh, I remember going to the 
Midwest to talk about it; I think I talked about in the Midwest right 
after the attacks. We've been working with both Republicans and 
Democrats to try to forge a good package. You know, I'm just sorry it 
hasn't happened. I hope they do reconsider and pass a good bill.
    Q. [Inaudible].
    The President. I can't hear you.
    Q. Are you saying they're not listening?
    The President. You need to talk to them. I'm just--what I'm saying 
is, I'm disappointed we don't have a package. Workers need help, and we 
need to stimulate the economy.
    Thank you all.

[[Page 185]]

Note: The President spoke at 4:08 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White 
House. A tape was not available for verification of the content of these 
remarks.