Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 46 (Monday, November 18, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 46 (Monday, November 18, 2002)]
[Page 2017]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7625--World Freedom Day, 2002

November 8, 2002

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    On World Freedom Day, the United States joins with the nations of 
the world that are dedicated to liberty and democratic values in 
commemorating the fall of the Berlin Wall, which occurred on November 9, 
1989. As we remember this historic event, we renew our commitment to 
advancing democracy, peace, and freedom for all throughout the world.
    The fall of the Berlin Wall ushered in a new era of liberty and 
self-determination in Central and Eastern Europe. In the years that 
followed this remarkable event, the citizens of formerly Communist 
states participated in open elections, secured their common rights to 
free speech, and claimed other fundamental freedoms. This triumph for 
democracy demonstrated that tyranny is temporary, and that liberty is 
the universal and guiding goal for all mankind.
    Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we have made great progress in 
encouraging free and open societies on every continent. But challenges 
remain. Today, too many people still suffer at the hands of dictators 
who deny liberty and support activities and organizations that aim to 
disrupt the freedom of other countries.
    On World Freedom Day, we celebrate freedom and its capacity to 
improve lives around the world. We also honor the people of the former 
Soviet bloc countries who fought against tyranny, and we recognize those 
who continue the struggle for freedom worldwide. As we face new 
challenges and welcome new opportunities, we remain committed to 
protecting our freedom and helping others realize their dreams of 
liberty.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 9, 2002, as World 
Freedom Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this 
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities and to reaffirm their 
dedication to freedom and democracy for all.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of 
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand two, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
seventh.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 13, 
2002]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on November 9, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
November 14.