Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 19 (Monday, May 13, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 19 (Monday, May 13, 2002)]
[Pages 780-781]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Designation of Officers of the General Services 
Administration

March 19, 2002

Memorandum for the Administrator of General Services

Subject: Designation of Officers of the General Services Administration

    By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution 
and the laws of the United States of America and pursuant to the Federal 
Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., I hereby order 
that:
    Section 1. Order of Succession.
    During any period when both the Administrator of General Services 
(Administrator) and the Deputy Administrator of General Services (Deputy 
Administrator) have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to 
perform the functions and duties of the office of Administrator, the 
following officers of the General Services Administration, in the order 
listed, shall perform the functions and duties of the office of 
Administrator, if they are eligible to act as Administrator under the 
provisions of the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, until such time 
as the Administrator or Deputy Administrator is able to perform the 
functions and duties of the office of Administrator:
    Chief of Staff; Commissioner, Public Buildings Service;
    Chief Financial Officer; and
    Assistant Regional Administrator, Public Buildings Service, Greater 
      Southwest Region (Fort Worth, Texas).
    Sec. 2. Exceptions.
    (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in 
an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Administrator 
pursuant to this memorandum.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President 
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Federal Vacancies 
Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345

[[Page 781]]

et seq., to depart from this memorandum in designating an acting 
Administrator.
                                                George W. Bush

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on May 9. An original was not available for verification of the content 
of this memorandum.