Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 23 (Monday, June 10, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 23 (Monday, June 10, 2002)]
[Pages 961-962]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7571--National Child's Day, 2002

 June 5, 2002

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Children bring joy and challenge to the lives they touch. And as our 
next generation of leaders, they carry with them the hope of our Nation. 
From the excitement of watching a toddler take a first step to the 
satisfaction of seeing them mature into adulthood, we are blessed to 
share our lives and experiences with children. Their thoughts, ideas, 
and unique perspectives renew our appreciation for life.
    National Child's Day is a time to affirm our commitment as parents, 
teachers, and citizens to the health, well-being, and success of our 
children. Our goal must be to make sure that all children have the 
opportunity to learn and succeed. To achieve this, we must use the 
resources of our families, communities, schools, and government to 
ensure that no child is left behind.
    My Administration is strongly committed to helping boys and girls 
grow up in secure families that help them reach their full potential. 
Families forge values where children can find fulfillment and love. And 
children

[[Page 962]]

who are surrounded by love, support, and encouragement can develop self-
esteem and have a strong foundation for life.
    We are working to implement programs and initiatives that help 
families stay strong and intact; that support adoption efforts and 
mentoring programs; that protect children from abuse and neglect; and 
that encourage alcohol, drug, and sexual abstinence. We also are making 
great progress in helping all schools become places where every student 
is able and expected to learn.
    While government can provide much to support children, it cannot 
provide the love a child needs. I encourage all community leaders, 
educators, faith-based organizations, and citizens to seek opportunities 
to mentor, encourage, and listen to our children. As we observe National 
Child's Day, we should also communicate to young people that their 
dreams, aspirations, happiness, and well-being are important to us and 
to our future.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 9, 2002, as 
National Child's Day. I urge all Americans to work within their 
communities to appreciate, love, and protect all of America's children. 
I also call upon citizens to observe this day with appropriate programs, 
ceremonies, and activities.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand two, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-sixth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., June 7, 
2002]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on June 
10.