Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 8 (Monday, February 25, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 8 (Monday, February 25, 2002)]
[Pages 268-269]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following Discussions With President Jiang Zemin of China in 
Beijing, China

February 21, 2002

    President Jiang. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I 
would like to once again extend our warm welcome to you, Mr. President. 
We have just had a very good discussion about issues of utmost concern, 
and now I'm prepared to have a continued exchange of views with you on 
other aspects of the bilateral ties, as well as the international 
situation.
    You will have the floor first.
    President Bush. Well, Mr. President, first of all, thank you again 
for your gracious hospitality. I am so pleased that my wife, Laura, is 
traveling with me so that she can see the progress of your great 
country.
    I also want to reiterate what I said inside about how thankful our 
Nation is, my Nation is, for your strong support in our war against 
terror and how gracious you were with your phone call right after 
September the 11th, expressing your condolences.
    We look forward to finding areas where we can work together, such as 
energy cooperation--is a chance for us to explore technologies that will 
enable your country to grow and our country to grow at the same time, 
work together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, for example.
    I gave a speech in the United States the other day outlining our 
vision of making sure we have economic growth and, at the same time, 
employ new technologies that will help us reduce greenhouse gases. And I 
announced to the country that I look forward

[[Page 269]]

to working with nations such as yourself, China, to explore ways that we 
can work together to deal with this issue in a cooperative spirit.
    Another area where we can work together is on HIV/AIDS. I understand 
your Minister of Health is coming to the United States soon, and we can 
have a good chance for our Secretaries of Health to be able to work 
together and share information and share hope of able to deal with this 
very important issue, not only in our own countries but around the 
world.

Note: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. in the Great Hall of the People. 
In his remarks, he referred to Minister of Public Health Zhang Wenkang 
of China. A tape was not available for verification of the content of 
these remarks.