Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 19 (Monday, May 13, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 19 (Monday, May 13, 2002)]
[Pages 779-780]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Designation of Officers of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency

March 19, 2002

Memorandum for the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency

Subject: Designation of Officers of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency

    By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution 
and the laws of the United States of America and pursuant to the

[[Page 780]]

Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., I hereby 
order that:
    Section 1. Order of Succession.
    During any period when both the Director of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (Director) and the Deputy Director of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (Deputy Director) have died, resigned, or 
otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the 
office of Director, the following officers of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, in the order listed, shall perform the functions and 
duties of the office of Director, if they are eligible to act as 
Director under the provisions of the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 
1998, until such time as the Director or Deputy Director is able to 
perform the functions and duties of the office of Director:
    General Counsel;
    Administrator of the United States Fire Administration;
    Assistant Director, Administration and Resource Planning 
      Directorate; and
    Regional Director, Region IV.
    Sec. 2. Exceptions.
    (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in 
an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Director 
pursuant to this memorandum.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President 
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Federal Vacancies 
Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., to depart from this 
memorandum in designating an acting Director.
                                                George W. Bush

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on May 9. An original was not available for verification of the content 
of this memorandum.