Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 19 (Monday, May 13, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 19 (Monday, May 13, 2002)]
[Page 781]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Designation of Officers of the National Archives and 
Records Administration

March 19, 2002

Memorandum for the Archivist of the United States

Subject: Designation of Officers of the National Archives and Records 
Administration

    By the authority vested in me as President under the Constitution 
and the laws of the United States of America and pursuant to the Federal 
Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., I hereby order 
that:
    Section 1. Order of Succession.
    During any period when both the Archivist of the United States 
(Archivist) and the Deputy Archivist of the United States (Deputy 
Archivist) have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform 
the functions and duties of the office of Archivist, the following 
officers of the National Archives and Records Administration, in the 
order listed, shall perform the functions and duties of the office of 
Archivist, if they are eligible to act as Archivist under the provisions 
of the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, until such time as the 
Archivist or Deputy Archivist is able to perform the functions and 
duties of the office of Archivist:
    Assistant Archivist for Administrative Services;
    Assistant Archivist for Human Resources and Information Services;
    Assistant Archivist for Records Services, Washington, D.C.;
    Assistant Archivist for Regional Records Services;
    Assistant Archivist for Presidential Libraries;
    Director, Office of the Federal Register;
    Director, National Personnel Records Center; and
    Director, Jimmy Carter Library.
    Sec. 2. Exceptions.
    (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in 
an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as Archivist 
pursuant to this memorandum.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President 
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the Federal Vacancies 
Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., to depart from this 
memorandum in designating an acting Archivist.
                                                George W. Bush

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on May 9. An original was not available for verification of the content 
of this memorandum.