Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 27 (Monday, July 8, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 27 (Monday, July 8, 2002)]
[Pages 1114-1115]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7575--Lewis and Clark Bicentennial

 June 28, 2002

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Nearly 200 years ago, President Thomas Jefferson sent an expedition 
westward to find and map a transcontinental water route to the Pacific 
Ocean. With approval from the Congress, Captains Meriwether Lewis and 
William Clark embarked on their legendary 3-year journey to explore the 
uncharted West. The expedition included 33 permanent party members, 
known as the Corps of Discovery.
    Their effort to chart the area between the Missouri River and the 
Pacific Coast set these courageous Americans on a remarkable scientific 
voyage that changed our Nation. In successfully completing the overland 
journey between the Missouri and Columbia River systems, they opened the 
unknown West for future development. During their exploration, Lewis and 
Clark collected plant and animal specimens, studied Indian cultures, 
conducted diplomatic councils, established trading relationships with 
tribes, and recorded weather data. To accomplish their goals, the Corps 
of Discovery relied on the assistance and guidance of Sakajawea, a 
Shoshone Indian woman.
    As we approach the 200th anniversary of Lewis and Clark's 
expedition, we commend their resourcefulness, determination, and 
bravery. This Bicentennial should also serve to remind us of our 
Nation's outstanding natural resources. Many of these treasures first 
detailed by Lewis and Clark are available today for people to visit, 
study, and enjoy. As the commemoration of this journey begins in 2003, I 
encourage all Americans to celebrate the accomplishments of Lewis and 
Clark and to recognize their contributions to our history.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby designate 2003 through 2006 as the 
Lewis and Clark Bicentennial. I ask all Americans to observe this event 
with appropriate activities that honor the achievements of the Lewis and 
Clark Expedition. I also direct Federal agencies to work in cooperation 
with each other, States, tribes, communities, and the National Council 
of the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial to promote educational, cultural, 
and interpretive opportunities for citizens and visitors to learn more 
about the natural, historical, and cultural resources that are 
significant components of the Lewis and Clark story.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth 
day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand two, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
sixth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:44 a.m., July 2, 
2002]

      

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on July 1, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
July 3.

[[Page 1115]]