Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38 Issue 23 (Monday, June 10, 2002)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 38, Number 23 (Monday, June 10, 2002)]
[Page 961]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7570--National Homeownership Month, 2002

 June 4, 2002

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Homeownership is an important part of the American Dream. As 
President, I am committed to helping many more Americans achieve that 
dream. A home provides shelter and a safe place where families can 
prosper and children can thrive. For many Americans, their home is an 
important financial investment, and it can be a source of great personal 
pride and an important part of community stability.
    Homeownership encourages personal responsibility and the values 
necessary for strong families. Where homeownership flourishes, 
neighborhoods are more stable, residents are more civic-minded, schools 
are better, and crime rates decline. Thanks to the resources available 
in our Nation, more Americans own homes today than at any time in our 
history. However, among African American and Hispanic families, fewer 
than half are homeowners. My Administration is working to provide all 
families with the tools and information they need to accumulate wealth 
and overcome barriers to homeownership.
    The Department of Housing and Urban Development is partnering with 
State and local governments, community groups, and the private sector to 
make the most effective use of Federal funds. Through a combination of 
down payment assistance, tax incentives, and education about the process 
and responsibilities of homeownership, we are helping thousands of 
Americans buy homes and pursue a better quality of life.
    During National Homeownership Month, I encourage all Americans to 
learn more about financial management and to explore homeownership 
opportunities in their communities. By taking this important step, 
individuals and families help safeguard their financial futures and 
contribute to the strength of our Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2002 as National 
Homeownership Month. I call upon the people of the United States to join 
me in recognizing the importance of providing all our citizens a chance 
to achieve the American Dream.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of 
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand two, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-sixth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., June 6, 
2002]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on June 7.