Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 51 (Monday, December 27, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 51 (Monday, December 27, 1993)]
[Pages 2622-2623]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6643--National Law Enforcement Training Week, 1994

 December 21, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    One of the most essential and challenging jobs in America belongs to 
our law enforcement officers. The men and women who safeguard our lives 
and property every hour of every day are true heroes. They must be 
physically fit, well-versed in criminal law and procedure, skilled in 
the use of weapons and other technologies, adept at communicating, 
leading, and problem-solving, and able to make split-second decisions in 
life-or-death situations. There is no time to look up answers in a 
textbook out on the street; an officer's education and training make all 
the difference.
    High-quality instruction and preparation are the foundations of 
successful law enforcement. As the problem of crime grows and criminals 
become more sophisticated, knowledge of law enforcement skills must 
enable officers to bring every available tool to bear to prevent crime 
and to apprehend those who, with no regard for the rights of others, 
defy our laws. It is no longer sufficient for officers to know how to 
use a car, a gun, and a fingerprint pad; today's professionals

[[Page 2623]]

must be proficient in disciplines as complicated and diverse as computer 
technology, chemical analysis, genetic fingerprinting, sociology, and 
psychology.
    On this occasion, we salute the men and women who prepare our law 
enforcement officers for duty. The expertise and education instilled by 
those who teach and train law officers make our criminal justice system 
more efficient and increase public confidence in government's ability to 
protect its citizens.
    Since successful law enforcement depends on community involvement, 
law enforcement education for the broader public should also be 
recognized and encouraged. From field trips to town meetings to 
university courses, teaching aimed at more general audiences can better 
capture the interest of citizens and motivate young people to consider 
careers in law enforcement.
    We, as a Nation, offer our heartfelt gratitude and support to those 
who instruct and inspire our officers. We encourage officers and other 
Americans to avail themselves of the many law enforcement training 
opportunities available to them.
    The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 75, has designated January 
2, 1994, through January 8, 1994, as ``National Law Enforcement Training 
Week,'' and has authorized and requested the President to issue a 
proclamation in observance of this occasion.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim January 2, 1994, through January 
8, 1994, as National Law Enforcement Training Week. I urge all Americans 
to observe this week with appropriate exhibits, ceremonies, and 
activities, including programs designed to heighten the awareness of all 
citizens and to stimulate and encourage our Nation's youth to recognize 
the vital significance of law enforcement in America.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first 
day of December, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-
three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two 
hundred and eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:48 p.m., December 21, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
December 23.