Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 7 (Monday, February 22, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 7 (Monday, February 22, 1993)]
[Pages 225-226]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Nomination of Phil Lader To Be Deputy Director for Management for the 
Office of Management and Budget

 February 19, 1993

    The President today appointed Phil Lader, a South Carolina 
businessman and educator, to be the Office of Management and Budget's 
Deputy Director for Management. As the senior administration official 
directly responsible for cutting waste and inefficiency in Government 
operations, Lader will play a key role in the President's efforts to 
reinvent Government.
    ``We must streamline the operations of the Federal Government,'' 
said President Clinton. ``We must squeeze every penny that we have out 
of the Government before we ask ordinary Americans to contribute to 
deficit reduction. Phil Lader has my complete confidence. I trust his 
ability to find every way possible to carry out my mandate of slashing 
the executive costs of Government.''
    A lawyer by training and candidate for South Carolina Governor in 
1986, Mr. Lader has had senior management experience in diverse fields. 
In business, he was president of Sea Pines Company, an operator and 
developer of recreation facilities, and executive vice president of a 
financial holding company. In academia, he was president of Australia's 
first private university and president of Winthrop University in South 
Carolina. He also was the founder and host of Renaissance Weekends and 
president of Business Executives for National Security.

[[Page 226]]

    Mr. Lader, 46, was educated at Duke, Michigan, Oxford, and Harvard 
Law school. He has been a trustee or director of various colleges, 
corporations, banks, and non-profit institutions. He and his wife, Linda 
LeSourd Lader, have two young daughters, and their permanent residence 
is Hilton Head Island, SC.