Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 37 (Monday, September 20, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 37 (Monday, September 20, 1993)]
[Pages 1738-1739]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Streamlining the Bureaucracy

 September 11, 1993

Memorandum for Heads of Departments and Agencies

Subject: Streamlining the Bureaucracy

    Consistent with the National Performance Review's recommendation to 
reduce the executive branch civilian work force by 252,000, or not less 
than 12 percent, by the close of fiscal year 1999, I hereby direct each 
head of an executive department or agency to prepare, as a first step, a 
streamlining plan to be submitted to the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget not later than December 1, 1993.
    The streamlining plans shall be prepared in accordance with the 
following:
    1. Each executive department's and agency's plans should address, 
      among other things, the means by which it will reduce the ratio of 
      managers and supervisors to other personnel, with a goal of 
      reducing the percentage who are supervisors or managers in halving 
      the current ratio within 5 years.
    2. The streamlining plans should be characterized by (a) delegation 
      of authority, (b) decentralization, (c) empowerment

[[Page 1739]]

      of employees to make decisions, and (d) mechanisms to hold 
      managers and employees accountable for their performance.
    3. Each plan shall address ways to reduce overcontrol and 
      micromanagement that now generate ``red tape'' and hamper 
      efficiency in the Federal Government. Each streamlining plan 
      should also propose specific measures to simplify the internal 
      organization and administrative processes of the department or 
      agency.
    4. The streamlining plans should further seek to realize cost 
      savings, improve the quality of Government services, and raise the 
      morale and productivity of the department or agency.
    5. All independent regulatory commissions and agencies are requested 
      to comply with the provisions of this memorandum.
    The Director of the Office of Management and Budget is authorized 
and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:40 a.m., September 
15, 1993]

Note: This memorandum was published in the Federal Register on September 
16.