Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 45 (Monday, November 15, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 45 (Monday, November 15, 1993)]
[Pages 2284-2285]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Appointments to Senior Executive Service Posts

 November 5, 1993

    The President today named 22 men and women to Senior Executive 
Service positions in a number of Federal Agencies and Departments, 
including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation, the Office of Personnel Management, the Peace Corps, and 
the Departments of State, Transportation, Education, and Justice.
    ``This group of talented men and women will provide solid support 
for our Cabinet Secretaries and agency heads who have taken on the 
challenge of making our Federal Government work better for the American 
people,'' the President said.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration

    Alan Ladwig, Senior Policy Analyst, NASA

Department of State

    Toni Grant Verstandig, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Near Eastern 
      Affairs

Department of Transportation

    Eugene A. Conti, Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary, Budget and 
      Programs

Environmental Protection Agency

    Felicia A. Marcus, Regional Administrator, Region IX

[[Page 2285]]

Peace Corps

    Frederick M. O'Regan, Regional Director, Eurasia Middle East Region
    Margaret Goodman, Regional Director, Asia Pacific Region
    Victor C. Johnson, Regional Director, Inter-America Region
    John P. Hogan, Associate Director of International Operations, 
      International Operations
    Judy Harrington, Associate Director for Volunteer Support, Volunteer 
      Support

U.S. International Development Cooperation Agency, Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation

    Charles D. Toy, Vice President/General Counsel

Office of Personnel Management

    Valerie Lau, Director of Policy, Office of the Director
    Lorraine Pratte Lewis, General Counsel, Office of the General 
      Counsel

Department of Education

    Linda G. Roberts, Special Adviser on Education Technology, Office of 
      the Deputy Secretary
    Jamienne S. Studley, Deputy General Counsel, Regulations and 
      Legislation Service

Department of Justice

    Diane P. Wood, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division
    Lois J. Schiffer, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Environment and 
      Natural Resources
    John A. Rogovin, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
    Mark I. Levy, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
    Irvin B. Nathan, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General
    Merrick B. Garland, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal 
      Division
    Eva M. Plaza, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division
    Nancy E. McFadden, Deputy Associate Attorney General, Office of the 
      Associate Attorney General

Note: Biographies of the appointees were made available by the Office of 
the Press Secretary. This item was not received in time for publication 
in the appropriate issue.