Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 9 (Monday, March 8, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 9 (Monday, March 8, 1993)]
[Page 357]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Nomination of Russell F. Canan To Be an Associate Judge of the Superior 
Court of the District of Columbia

 March 4, 1993

    The President has nominated Russell F. Canan to be an Associate 
Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. In doing so, 
the President discharged his responsibility under local law to select a 
nominee from a list of candidates originally submitted last year by the 
District of Columbia Judicial Nominating Commission.
    ``I was impressed with all of the candidates,'' said the President, 
``but Russ Canan stood out because of his broad support within the 
District of Columbia legal community, including Mayor Kelly's personal 
recommendation, and because of the impressive track record he has 
accumulated in 16 years of law practice in Washington. Above all, we 
heard nothing but the highest praise for Mr. Canan's professional skills 
and talents from those who know his work the best: the many judges on 
the Superior Court before whom he has practiced.''
    Mr. Canan is a partner in the firm of Canan, Keirsh & Lobo, 
specializing in criminal law. He was previously a partner in the firms 
of Milliken, Van Susteren & Canan; and Canan, Burns & O'Toole. Mr. Canan 
has also served as an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown University 
Law Center, and the Washington College of Law at American University. In 
1983, he worked as a staff attorney for the Southern Prisoners' Defense 
Committee.
    He received his J.D. from Antioch School of Law in 1976, and his 
B.A. from Syracuse University in 1972. He worked as law clerk to the 
Hon. John D. Fauntleroy in 1975-76, and for the legal assistance branch 
of D.C. Superior Court after graduation from law school in 1976.
    Mr. Canan's law practice has also included many complex civil 
litigation matters and extensive pro bono representations in both civil 
and criminal cases.