Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 3 (Monday, January 25, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 3 (Monday, January 25, 1993)]
[Pages 71-72]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Bulgaria-United States Investment 
Treaty

 January 19, 1993

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I trans- 

[[Page 72]]

mit herewith the Treaty Between the United States of America and the 
Republic of Bulgaria Concerning the Encouragement and Reciprocal 
Protection of Investment, with Protocol and related exchange of letters, 
signed at Washington on September 23, 1992. I transmit also, for the 
information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with 
respect to this Treaty.
    The Treaty will help to encourage U.S. private sector involvement in 
the Bulgarian economy by establishing a favorable legal framework for 
U.S. investment in Bulgaria. The Treaty is fully consistent with U.S. 
policy toward international investment. A specific tenet, reflected in 
this Treaty, is that U.S. investment abroad and foreign investment in 
the United States should receive fair, equitable, and nondiscriminatory 
treatment. Under this Treaty, the Parties also agree to international 
law standards for expropriation and expropriation compensation; free 
transfers of funds associated with investments; and the option of the 
investor to resolve disputes with the host government through 
international arbitration.
    I recommend that the Senate consider this Treaty as soon as 
possible, and give its advice and consent to ratification of the Treaty, 
with Protocol and related exchange of letters, at an early date.
                                                  George Bush,
The White House,
January 19, 1993.

Note: This message was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
January 20.