Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 41 (Monday, October 18, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 41 (Monday, October 18, 1993)]
[Page 2085]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6612--White Cane Safety Day, 1993

 October 15, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    To thousands of visually impaired Americans the white cane means 
freedom--freedom to move safely and independently through their daily 
lives, participating fully in the activities of their homes, places of 
employment, and communities. White Cane Safety Day not only celebrates 
the accomplishments of the visually impaired, but also recognizes our 
Nation's commitment to remove any physical or attitudinal barriers that 
Americans with disabilities may still face.
    This commitment underscores our continuing efforts to implement 
fully the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 
which prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in such 
areas as employment, public accommodations, telecommunications, and 
transportation.
     In tribute to the white cane and all that it symbolizes for our 
society, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved in 1964, has 
designated October 15 of each year as ``White Cane Safety Day.''
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim October 15, 1993, as White Cane 
Safety Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day with 
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day 
of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:32 p.m., October 15, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
October 19.