Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 19 (Monday, May 17, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 19 (Monday, May 17, 1993)]
[Page 791]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Nominations for the National Council on Disability

 May 7, 1993

    The President announced today that he intends to nominate five new 
members to the National Council on Disability and that he has approved 
the nomination for reappointment of two others.
    ``I am pleased to announce these additions to the National Council 
on Disability,'' said the President. ``With the passage of the Americans 
With Disabilities Act, people with disabilities are now able to fully 
participate in our society. These outstanding people will ensure that 
all Americans are judged by their abilities, not their disabilities.''
    Among those the President will nominate is Marca Bristo, the 
president and executive director of Access Living of Metropolitan 
Chicago. Following her confirmation and appointment, Bristo will be 
designated by the President as Chair of the Commission.
    The other new members the President will nominate are:
    Michelle Alioto, television director, producer, writer, and host, 
      and cofounder of the American Paralysis Association;
    Bonnie O'Day, executive director, Boston Center for Independent 
      Living;
    Hughey Walker, chairman, Georgetown (SC) County Council; and
    Katie Pew Wolters, executive director, Steelcase Foundation and 
      member, Michigan Developmental Disabilities Council.
    The members being nominated for reappointment are:
    John Anthony Gannon, president emeritus, International Association 
      of Fire Fighters, and founder, John A. Gannon and Associates; and
    Lawrence Brown, Jr., business and community relations manager, 
      Xerox, and former running back for the Washington Redskins.

Note: This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.