Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 9 (Monday, March 8, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 9 (Monday, March 8, 1993)]
[Pages 363-364]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Announcement of Nomination for Two Sub-Cabinet Posts

 March 5, 1993

    The President today announced his intention to nominate Bruce Vladek 
to be Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration at the 
Department of Health and Human Services and Norma Cantu to be Assistant 
Secretary for Civil Rights at the Department of Education.
    ``I am very pleased to make these nominations today to two extremely 
important positions,'' said the President. ``Bruce Vladek and Norma 
Cantu are highly talented individuals with unique qualifications for the 
leadership roles that I have asked them to take.''
    Vladek has been president of the United Hospital Fund of New York 
since 1983. Prior to that, he was assistant vice president of the Robert 
Wood Johnson Foundation. From 1979 to 1982, he was the State of New 
Jersey's assistant commissioner of health planning and resources 
development. He has also been an associate professor of political 
science at Columbia University and an associate social scientist with 
the New York City-Rand Institute. He earned his B.A. from Harvard 
University and his M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
    Norma Cantu is the southwestern regional counsel for the Mexican 
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF), a position she has 
held since 1985. She has also served MALDEF as the national director of 
a Carnegie endowment-funded education, litigation, and advocacy project 
and as a staff attorney on the Chicana Rights Project. In addition, she 
has also worked with the nursing home task force of the Texas attorney 
general's office and has been an English teacher in San Antonio and 
Brownsville, TX.

[[Page 364]]

    Both of these nominations are subject to Senate confirmation.