Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 42 (Monday, October 25, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 42 (Monday, October 25, 1993)]
[Page 2123]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Senate Leaders on the Conflict in Bosnia

 October 20, 1993

Dear Mr. Leader:

    The violent conflict in the former Yugoslavia continues to be a 
source of deep concern. As you know, my Administration is committed to 
help stop the bloodshed and implement a fair and enforceable peace 
agreement, if the parties to the conflict can reach one. I have stated 
that such enforcement potentially could include American military 
personnel as part of a NATO operation. I have also specified a number of 
conditions that would need to be met before our troops would participate 
in such an operation.
    I also have made clear that it would be helpful to have a strong 
expression of support from the United States Congress prior to the 
participation of U.S. forces in implementation of a Bosnian peace 
accord. For that reason, I would welcome and encourage congressional 
authorization of any military involvement in Bosnia.
    The conflict in Bosnia ultimately is a matter for the parties to 
resolve, but the nations of Europe and the United States have 
significant interests at stake. For that reason, I am committed to keep 
our nation engaged in the search for a fair and workable resolution to 
this tragic conflict.
    I want to express my lasting gratitude for the leadership you have 
shown in recent days as we have worked through difficult issues 
affecting our national security. With your help we have built a broad 
coalition that should provide the basis for proceeding constructively in 
the months ahead. Once again you have earned our respect and 
appreciation.
    Sincerely,
                                                  Bill Clinton

Note: Identical letters were sent to George Mitchell, majority leader of 
the Senate, and Bob Dole, minority leader of the Senate.