Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 6 (Monday, February 15, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 6 (Monday, February 15, 1993)]
[Page 200]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Nominations of Under Secretary and Assistant Secretaries of Commerce

 February 13, 1993

    The President today announced his choices for four top leadership 
positions at the Department of Commerce, expressing his intention to 
nominate:
    James Baker to be Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere;
    Doug Hall to be Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere;
    Sheila Anthony to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and 
      Intergovernmental Affairs;
    Larry Irving to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and 
      Information.
    Baker and Hall will serve as the Director and Deputy Director of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), one of the 
Federal Government's key environmental research agencies.
    ``Secretary Ron Brown is putting together a superb leadership team 
at the Department of Commerce,'' said President Clinton. ``I am looking 
forward to working with them to turn Commerce into one of our 
administration's most vital agencies.''
    ``We have found the perfect balance to lead NOAA,'' the President 
added. ``With Jim Baker and Doug Hall, we have a team that will bring 
great scientific skills, laboratory management experience, a strong 
commitment to environmental protection, and the savvy required to deal 
effectively with sensitive issues.''
    As Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information, Clarence 
L. (Larry) Irving will direct the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration (NTIA). ``One of the most important missions 
that I have charged the Commerce Department with is nurturing the key 
industries of the future, in areas like telecommunications,'' said the 
President. ``Larry Irving has a clear vision for turning 
telecommunications innovations into high skill, high wage jobs.''
    ``In addition,'' said President Clinton, ``with his experience on 
Capitol Hill, Larry will be invaluable in moving legislation swiftly 
through the Congress. He will be joined in that effort by Sheila 
Anthony, someone with the political and management experience to 
strengthen the lines of communication between Commerce and Capitol Hill. 
I am so pleased to have a native of Hope, Arkansas, working closely with 
Congress to get our plans enacted.''

Note: Biographies of the nominees were attached to the press release.