Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 16 (Monday, April 26, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 16 (Monday, April 26, 1993)]
[Pages 641-642]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Executive Order 12845--Requiring Agencies To Purchase Energy Efficient 
Computer Equipment

 April 21, 1993

    Whereas, the Federal Government should set an example in the energy 
efficient operation of its facilities and the procurement of pollution 
preventing technologies;
    Whereas, the Federal Government should minimize its operating costs, 
make better use of taxpayer-provided dollars, and reduce the Federal 
deficit; and
    Whereas, the Federal Government is the largest purchaser of computer 
equipment in the world and therefore has the capacity to greatly 
accelerate the movement toward energy efficient computer equipment;
    Now, Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the 
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including 
section 381 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 6361), section 205 of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 486), section 152 of the Energy 
Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-486), and section 301 of title 3, 
United States Code, and to ensure the energy efficient operation

[[Page 642]]

of the Federal Government's facilities and to encourage the procurement 
of pollution preventing technologies that will save taxpayer money, 
reduce the Federal deficit, and accelerate the movement to energy 
efficient designs in standard computer equipment, it is hereby ordered 
as follows:
    Section 1. Procurement of Computer Equipment that Meets EPA Energy 
Star Requirements for Energy Efficiency. (a) The heads of Federal 
agencies shall ensure that, within 180 days from the date of this order, 
all acquisitions of microcomputers, including personal computers, 
monitors, and printers, meet ``EPA Energy Star'' requirements for energy 
efficiency. The heads of Federal agencies may grant, on a case-by-case 
basis, exemptions to this directive for acquisitions, based upon the 
commercial availability of qualifying equipment, significant cost 
differential of the equipment, the agency's performance requirements, 
and the agency's mission.
    (b) Within 180 days from the date of this order, agencies shall 
specify that microcomputers, including personal computers, monitors, and 
printers, acquired by the agency shall be equipped with the energy 
efficient low-power standby feature as defined by the EPA Energy Star 
computers program. This feature shall be activated when the equipment is 
shipped and shall be capable of entering and recovering from the low-
power state unless the equipment meets Energy Star efficiency levels at 
all times. To the extent permitted by law, agencies shall include this 
specification in all existing and future contracts, if both the 
Government and the contractor agree, and if any additional costs would 
be offset by the potential energy savings.
    (c) Agencies shall ensure that Federal users are made aware of the 
significant economic and environmental benefits of the energy efficient 
low-power standby feature and its aggressive use by including this 
information in routine computer training classes.
    (d) Each agency shall report annually to the General Services 
Administration on acquisitions exempted from the requirements of this 
Executive order, and the General Services Administration shall prepare a 
consolidated annual report for the President.
    Sec. 2. Definition. For purposes of this order, the term ``agency'' 
has the same meaning given it in section 151 of the Energy Policy Act of 
1992.
    Sec. 3. Judicial Review. This order does not create any right or 
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by a non-Federal party 
against the United States, its officers or employees, or any other 
person.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
April 21, 1993.

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:48 a.m., April 22, 
1993]

Note: This Executive order was published in the Federal Register on 
April 23.