Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 18 (Monday, May 10, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 18 (Monday, May 10, 1993)]
[Pages 787-788]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6559--Mother's Day, 1993 May 7, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    For more than half a century, Americans have celebrated Mother's Day 
on the second Sunday in May. On this day, we honor our mothers and 
reflect on the many hours of love and care they have devoted to our 
lives.
    Mothers are the cornerstone of our communities. As caregivers, 
community activists, teachers, leaders, and business professionals, they 
serve as role models and inspirations for our achievements. Their 
tireless devotion to the family nourishes us as individuals and enriches 
our Nation.
    Throughout life, a mother is a teacher, a nurturer, a supporter, and 
a source of strength. Our mothers instill in us strong values and the 
confidence to dream big dreams. With their encouragement and support, we 
can pursue our dreams and make them come true.
    Mothers enrich our lives in so many ways. Whether biological, 
foster, or adoptive, a mother holds an enduring place in our hearts; a 
mother's love transcends all differences and divisions. We admire the 
energy, strength, and conviction of our mothers, and we honor their 
dedication to helping others. As we celebrate Mother's Day, let us 
cherish their gifts of selflessness and love.
    In recognition of the contributions of all mothers to their children 
and to the Nation, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 8, 
1914 (38 Stat. 770), has designated the second Sunday in May each year 
as ``Mother's Day'' and requested the President to call for its 
appropriate observance.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America,

[[Page 788]]

do hereby request that Sunday, May 9, 1993, be observed as Mother's Day. 
I direct Government officials to display the flag of the United States 
on all Federal Government buildings, and I urge all citizens to display 
the flag at their homes and other suitable places on that day.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of 
May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
seventeenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:24 a.m., May 10, 1993]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on May 
11.