Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 9 (Monday, March 8, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 9 (Monday, March 8, 1993)]
[Page 364]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Announcement of Nomination for Three Sub-Cabinet Posts at the State 
Department

 March 5, 1993

    The President today expressed his intention to nominate Douglas 
Bennet, the president and CEO of National Public Radio, to be the 
Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs; 
Eric James Boswell to be the Director of the Office of Foreign Missions; 
and Conrad Harper to be the State Department's Legal Adviser.
    ``These three positions are essential to the smooth workings of 
State Department operations,'' said the President. ``Douglas Bennet, 
Eric James Boswell, and Conrad Harper will fill them with talent, 
dedication, and the steady hands that are needed to get the job done.''
    Douglas J. Bennet, Jr., has been with NPR as its president and CEO 
since 1983. Prior to that he was president of the Roosevelt Center for 
American Policy. From 1979 to 1981, he was the Administrator of the 
Agency for International Development. Prior to that he served for 2 
years as the Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations. 
Prior to his State Department service, he worked as the first staff 
director of the Senate Budget Committee, as administrative assistant to 
Senators Abraham Ribicoff and Thomas Eagleton, and as an assistant to 
Vice President Hubert Humphrey. He was also a special assistant to U.S. 
Ambassador Chester Bowles in India. He holds a B.A. from Wesleyan 
University, an M.A. from the University of California, and a Ph.D. from 
Harvard University.
    Conrad Harper is a partner in the New York law firm of Simpson 
Thatcher & Bartlett. For many years, he has been active in a variety of 
civic affairs. In 1977, he was a consultant to the Department of Health, 
Education, and Welfare and served as the Government's chief negotiator 
in the creation of a faculty desegregation and bilingual education plan 
for the Chicago public schools. From 1977 to 1981 he was a visiting 
lecturer in law at Yale Law School. He has served on the board of the 
New York Public Library for over a decade, and was formerly one of two 
cochairmen of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. From 
1987 to 1992, he was chancellor of the Episcopal Diocese of New York. 
Mr. Harper is a graduate of Howard University and Harvard Law School.
    Eric James Boswell is a career Foreign Service Officer with more 
than two decades of experience who is currently serving as Executive 
Assistant to the Under Secretary of State for Management. He has served 
in a variety of challenging administrative positions, including 
Executive Director of the Bureau for Near Eastern and South Asian 
Affairs from 1987 to 1990. He has been the Administrative Counselor in 
Ottawa and in Jordan and has served at posts in Quebec and Senegal as 
well. Mr. Boswell is a graduate of Stanford University.