Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 46 (Monday, November 22, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 46 (Monday, November 22, 1993)]
[Pages 2394-2395]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6627--National Military Families Recognition Day, 1993

 November 18, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Military families are diverse, strong, resourceful, and patriotic. 
The men and women who serve our country understand that their families 
provide essential support and make enormous sacrifices every day. We, as 
a Nation, must also recognize the unselfish

[[Page 2395]]

contributions of our military families wherever they may be around the 
world.
    As we go about the routine business of our lives, it is easy to 
forget the daily hardships, inconveniences, separations, and disruptions 
that our service men and women and their families endure to protect 
America. These dedicated individuals will affirm that it is their 
families who invariably sustain them and warm their hearts. In every 
city and State and in many countries worldwide, service men and women 
proudly note that the highlight of their day is that special smile, 
telephone call, or letter they receive. The military family is the 
motivational force that continually elevates the spirit of the service 
member when life's joys and sorrows need to be shared.
    The Department of Defense has long recognized that the family unit 
is an important factor in the overall readiness and well-being of the 
members of the Armed Forces. Indeed, military families make 
extraordinary contributions to the entire Nation through their efforts 
to support and encourage their loved ones.
    The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115, has designated 
November 22, 1993, as ``National Military Families Recognition Day'' and 
has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in 
observance of this day.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim November 22, 1993, as National 
Military Families Recognition Day. I call upon all Americans to join in 
honoring military families throughout the world. Finally, I ask Federal, 
State, and local officials and private organizations to observe this day 
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day 
of November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:30 p.m., November 19, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on November 19, and it will be published in the Federal 
Register on November 23.