Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 41 (Monday, October 18, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 41 (Monday, October 18, 1993)]
[Pages 2055-2056]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6610--General Pulaski Memorial Day, 1993

 October 9, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Each October 11, on the anniversary of his death in battle, America 
honors General Casimir Pulaski, a hero of two nations.
    A patriot to the core, Pulaski loved his native Poland dearly. In 
unequal battle against far stronger enemies, he fought for his country's 
freedom.
    But Pulaski's love of liberty transcended national boundaries, and 
when the American War of Independence began, he took the colonists' 
struggle as his own. He came to the United States, put his battlefield 
experi- 

[[Page 2056]]

ence at the service of the Continental Army, and commanded a cavalry 
unit. On this day in 1779, during the siege of Savannah, General Pulaski 
gave his life for the cause of American freedom.
    Pulaski's spirit and example have inspired Americans for more than 
two centuries. Across this country, you will find counties, towns, 
schools, parks and highways named after that patriot; in my own home 
state of Arkansas, Pulaski County is the seat of the capital, Little 
Rock.
    But eager as we are to claim General Pulaski as our own, we are also 
proud to share him with Poland. What Pulaski fought for in the latter 
part of the 18th century, his compatriots have achieved at the end of 
the 20th: a free Poland, welcome and respected in the community of 
independent nations. And the courage General Pulaski displayed in battle 
is matched by that of his present-day countrymen, who have carried out 
Poland's history-making revolution without bloodshed.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim Monday, October 11, 1993, as 
General Pulaski Memorial Day, and I encourage the people of the United 
States to commemorate this occasion appropriately throughout the land.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:10 p.m., October 12, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
14.