Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 8 (Monday, March 1, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 8 (Monday, March 1, 1993)]
[Pages 307-308]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Exchange With Reporters Prior to a Meeting With Prime Minister John 
Major of the United Kingdom

 February 24, 1993

Bosnia

    Q. Mr. President, are you going to make an announcement on Bosnia 
today? On the airdrop?
    The President. I don't think we'll have a final announcement today. 
But the Prime Minister and I certainly are going to discuss that along 
with a number of other things.
    Q. Mr. Prime Minister, are you concerned that American airdrops 
might endanger British troops on the ground, put them subject to 
Serbian----
    Prime Minister Major. No, I'm not remotely concerned about that. 
We'll discuss the airdrops. I think, as a humanitarian initiative that's 
very welcome. And it'll have our support. I don't think it is going to 
endanger British troops.
    Q. What is holding you up, Mr. President, in your decision?
    The President. Just going through the procedures we have to go 
through to discuss this with our allies.

News Conference

    Q. When are you going to announce a press conference?
    The President. You know, I didn't realize it had been so long since 
I had one. I really didn't, Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press 
International], until you mentioned it the other day. I need to give you 
one. I'll get----
    Q. When?
    The President. I'm going to take it up with our folks. I didn't even 
know it had been a long time, since I answer these questions all the 
time.
    The Vice President. It seems like there is a press conference 
everyday.
    Q. That's not a press conference.
    The Vice President. Oh, I know. I know.
    The President. I'll do better on that.
    Q. You promise?

[At this point, one group of reporters left the room and another group 
entered.]

Prime Minister Mulroney of Canada

    Q. Do you gentlemen have anything to say about Brian Mulroney in his 
resignation today?
    The President. I wish him well. I talked to him. We had a nice 
visit. And I don't think that I can add anything to the statement that 
was made. But I was very appreciative of the conversation we had, and I 
wish him well.

Relations With the United Kingdom

    Q. Can we ask how the special relationship is, Mr. President?
    The President. Excuse me?
    Q. Can we ask how the special relationship between the U.S. and 
Britain is?
    The President. Absolutely.

[[Page 308]]

    Prime Minister Major. You have got the British press. [Laughter]
    The President. Absolutely. It's special to me personally, and it's 
special to the United States, and I think it will be as long as I'm 
sitting here in this office.

Note: The exchange began at 3:10 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House.