Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 10 (Monday, March 15, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 10 (Monday, March 15, 1993)]
[Page 392]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Announcement on the Forest Conference

 March 10, 1993

    Beginning the critical work to craft a balanced and comprehensive 
policy that will save jobs and the unique, precious resources of the old 
growth forests in the Northwest and northern California, President 
Clinton today, March 10, announced he will convene a Forest Conference 
in Portland, OR, on April 2.
    ``Planning and good long-term management can help us protect jobs 
and the unique, old growth forests that are as much a part of our 
national heritage as the Grand Canyon or Yosemite,'' President Clinton 
said. ``It is time to break the gridlock that has blocked action and 
bring all sides together to craft a balanced approach to the economic 
and environmental challenges we face.''
    The Forest Conference fulfills a commitment by President Clinton to 
the American people and to the residents of the Northwest and northern 
California to confront these issues with a thorough review and balanced 
policy. President Clinton will convene the conference with Vice 
President Al Gore and members of the Cabinet, including the Secretaries 
of Interior, Agriculture, and Labor, and the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency.
    ``We have to take action to protect jobs and recognize the important 
economic contribution Federal forest lands make to supporting local 
communities. We owe it to our children and to every generation that 
follows to preserve this unique treasure with a balanced, long-term 
policy that recognizes we don't have to sacrifice jobs to protect a 
unique natural resource,'' Vice President Gore said.
    The President has directed his staff to work closely with the 
Cabinet Agencies to involve representatives of all parties affected by 
the management of forests in the Pacific Northwest and California. This 
will include but not be limited to the Governors of California, Oregon, 
and Washington, and Members of Congress from the affected States and 
from the leadership of key congressional committees. And the President 
has asked the Secretaries of Interior, Agriculture, and Labor to begin 
collecting information central to developing comprehensive, long-term 
policies for forest management and worker and community assistance.