Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 51 (Monday, December 27, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 51 (Monday, December 27, 1993)]
[Pages 2617-2618]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing Persian Gulf War Veterans Health Care Legislation

 December 20, 1993

    I am deeply concerned about the reports of health problems 
afflicting a number of our Persian Gulf veterans. The legislation I am 
signing today, H.R. 2535, addresses those problems by authorizing the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to treat them for any disease that 
may have resulted from their exposure to toxic substances or 
environmental hazards in the Gulf.
    Since our troops returned home over 2 years ago, we have heard from 
many who are experiencing serious health problems for which modern 
medicine is having difficulty establishing a cause or a diagnosis.
    With parades and a national outpouring of gratitude, we showed those 
brave men and women our appreciation for the sacrifices they made for 
all of us. Now we must stand by those who are suffering.

[[Page 2618]]

    The symptoms these veterans experience have included, among other 
things, fatigue, painful muscles and joints, bleeding gums, skin rashes, 
short-term memory loss, and hair loss. With this legislation, the VA 
will have the authority to provide to these veterans both inpatient and 
outpatient care on a priority basis. Thus, we can help make certain that 
these veterans' health care needs are met as fully as possible while 
important research into their problems goes forward.
    This legislation also provides for reimbursement to these veterans 
for any copayments they may have made to the VA for care that might have 
been necessary because of their exposures in the Persian Gulf.
    In addition, this legislation extends the VAs authority to:
<bullet>    furnish Vietnam veterans with care that may be related to 
            their exposure to agent orange;
<bullet>    furnish veterans who participated in nuclear weapons tests 
            or in the occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki with care that 
            may be related to their exposure to ionizing radiation;
<bullet>    provide women veterans with sexual trauma counseling; and,
<bullet>    maintain its regional office in the Philippines.
    Over 650,000 service men and women from United States forces 
valiantly forced Sadam Hussein's armies from Kuwait, and earned the 
respect and admiration of people around the globe. They also earned our 
Nation's undying gratitude and support.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
December 20, 1993.

Note: H.R. 2535, approved December 20, was assigned Public Law No. 103-
210.