Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 17 (Monday, May 3, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 17 (Monday, May 3, 1993)]
[Pages 707-708]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6550--Jewish Heritage Week, 1993

 April 28, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    The essence of America's greatness has always been the diversity of 
its people. From the times of native settlement through the immigration 
of people from hundreds of other countries, the United States has gained 
immeasurably from the strengths of the peoples who have come to our 
shores. The Jewish community is an important part of this legacy.
    Jewish citizens have contributed their knowledge and skills to every 
field of endeavor, including education, business, industry, science, and 
the arts. Their names are permanently etched in America's history books, 
and the Jewish community's rich heritage and culture pervade all aspects 
of American society.
    Throughout the years, immigrating to America meant educational and 
economic opportunity, as well as freedom from oppression, for the Jewish 
people. For people who suffered under the yoke of dictators and ethnic 
hatred, America's democracy offered a chance for political involvement 
and religious liberty.
    By wagon and train, by horseback and all other means of conveyance, 
the Jewish people have traveled across the vast expanse of America to 
create prosperous and rewarding lives for themselves. In the process, 
they have improved the social, political, and economic fabric of our 
Nation. To celebrate these contributions and recognize the people, 
traditions, and culture of the Jewish faith, the Congress, by Senate 
Joint Resolution 30, has designated the week of April 25, 1993, through 
May 2, 1993, as ``Jewish Heritage Week'' and has authorized and 
requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this 
week.

[[Page 708]]

    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of April 25, 1993, 
through May 2, 1993, as Jewish Heritage Week. I call upon the people of 
the United States to observe the week with appropriate programs, 
ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth 
day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and seventeenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 5:02 p.m., April 28, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on April 
30.