Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 23 (Monday, June 14, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 23 (Monday, June 14, 1993)]
[Pages 1035-1036]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6571--Lyme Disease Awareness Week, 1993 and 1994

 June 4, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Lyme disease has become the most common arthropod-borne infection in 
the United States since it was first recognized as a clinical entity in 
1975. Although most prevalent in the coastal northeastern and north 
central States, a significant number of cases have been reported in the 
Pacific Coast States, primarily northern California and Oregon.
    Lyme disease is caused by a bacterium that is transmitted from ticks 
to warm-blooded animals. The major reservoirs of infection are deer and 
rodents, although the ticks can be carried on dogs, cats, and 
occasionally birds. Persons who live near or who work in wooded areas 
are at risk of contracting Lyme disease. Lyme disease can develop into a 
chronic multisystem disorder that can elicit a wide range of symptoms 
and run an unpredictable course. Clinical manifestations include 
arthritis, neurological symptoms, heart problems, and sometimes eye 
inflammation, hepatitis, and severe fatigue.
    Early symptoms may include one or more of the following: A rash at 
the site of the tick bite, headache, fever, joint pain, and fatigue. 
Though the disease usually responds to antibiotic treatment at this 
stage, in later stages it may develop into a persistent chronic 
infection that affects joints or the nervous system. The bacteria also 
may be transmitted from an infected pregnant woman to her fetus.
    Scientists at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases, along with their colleagues at the National Institute of 
Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, are supporting dozens 
of research projects on Lyme disease. Along with several other 
components of the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, they are devoting considerable effort to 
eradicate the disease. Experts from a wide range of disciplines are 
focusing on improving diagnostic techniques and therapeutic strategies 
and on developing an effective human vaccine. Animal models of the 
disease have been developed that promise to hasten progress in all of 
these areas.
    In support of these efforts, the Congress, by Senate Joint 
Resolution 43, has designated the weeks beginning June 6, 1993, and June 
5, 1994, as ``Lyme Disease Awareness Week'' and has requested the 
President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim the weeks of June 6, 1993, and 
June 5, 1994, as Lyme Disease Awareness Week. I urge all government 
agencies, health organizations, communications media, and private 
citizens to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities 
in order to ensure better understanding of Lyme disease.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of 
June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
seventeenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:40 a.m., June 7, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on June 5, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
June 8.

[[Page 1036]]