Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 10 (Monday, March 15, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 10 (Monday, March 15, 1993)]
[Pages 402-403]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Announcement of the Continuation of Foreign Service Officers in Three 
Sub-Cabinet Posts at the Department of State

 March 11, 1993

    The President announced today that three career Foreign Service 
officers will continue serving in State Department positions that they 
currently hold. The three are Genta Hawkins Holmes, Director General of 
the Foreign Service and Director of Personnel, Robert Gallucci, 
Assistant Secretary for Politico-Military Affairs, and Anthony Quainton, 
Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Diplomatic Security.
    ``I am very pleased with the team that Secretary Christopher and I 
are assembling at the Department of State,'' said the President. ``I am 
particularly gratified that we have been able to put a number of people 
into senior positions who have devoted their careers to the Foreign 
Service.''
    Genta Hawkins Holmes became the Director General of the Foreign 
Service and Director of Personnel in September of 1992. Prior to that, 
she was the first U.S. Ambassador to Namibia. She has also served as 
Deputy Chief of Mission at American Embassies in South Africa, Haiti, 
and Malawi, and at posts in the Bahamas, Switzerland, France, and the 
Ivory Coast.
    Ms. Holmes is also a former Assistant Administrator for Legislative 
Affairs of the Agency for International Development and has worked in 
the State Department's Bureau of Congressional Relations, Office of 
International Finance/Bureau of Economic Affairs, and Office of the 
Special Assistant to the Secretary for Refugees. She holds a B.A. in 
international relations from the University of Southern California and 
attended the London School of Economics on a graduate fellowship.
    Robert Gallucci will be continuing in a position that he assumed in 
July 1992. Immediately prior to that, he was the Senior Coordinator 
responsible for nonproliferation and nuclear safety initiatives in the 
former Soviet Union. From April 1991 to February 1992, he was the Deputy 
Executive Chairman of the U.N. special commission overseeing the 
disarmament of Iraq.
    Dr. Gallucci began his foreign affairs career at the Arms Control 
and Disarmament Agency in 1974. He has also served as a division chief 
in State's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, as a member of the 
Secretary's Policy Planning Staff, and as an office director in both the 
Bureau of Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs and in the Bureau of 
Politico-Military Affairs. From 1984 to 1988, he was Deputy Director 
General of the Multinational Force and Observers in Rome. He has also 
served on the faculty of the National War College.
    A native of Brooklyn, NY, Dr. Gallucci holds a B.A. from the State 
University of New York at Stony Brook, and master's and doctoral degrees 
from Brandeis University. He taught at Swarthmore College, Johns Hopkins 
School of Advanced International Studies, and Georgetown, and is the 
author

[[Page 403]]

of a number of publications, including ``Neither Peace nor Honor: The 
Politics of American Military Policy in Viet-Nam.''
    Anthony Quainton has been Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic 
Security since September 1992. Prior to that, he had served as 
Ambassador to Peru and as the Department's Deputy Inspector General. He 
has also been Ambassador to Kuwait, Nicaragua, and the Central African 
Republic, and Director of the Office for Combatting Terrorism.
    From 1973 to 1976, Mr. Quainton was Deputy Chief of Mission in 
Kathmandu. He has served as political officer at the U.S. Embassy in 
Paris and was the Bureau of Near East and South Asian Affairs senior 
political officer for India. He has also been the political/economic 
officer in New Delhi and an economic officer in Rawalpindi and Karachi. 
He joined the Department in 1959 as vice consul and commercial officer 
in Sydney.
    He is a graduate of Princeton University and attended Oxford 
University as a Marshall scholar and a research fellow.