Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 5 (Monday, February 8, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 5 (Monday, February 8, 1993)]
[Page 121]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Nomination of Kenneth D. Brody To Be President and Chairman of the 
Export-Import Bank of the United States

 February 1, 1993

    President Clinton today announced his intention to nominate Kenneth 
D. Brody as President and Chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States.
    Mr. Brody is an investment banker with substantial international 
financing experience. He was a member of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 1971 
to 1991, where he was elected partner in 1978 and member of the 
management committee in 1990. Currently he is a limited partner with the 
firm. He co-headed the merchant banking group, headed the real estate 
group, founded and headed the high-technology group, and engaged in a 
wide range of investment banking activities. His international 
experience began in 1972 and, in addition to many international 
financings, includes managing two global businesses for Goldman, Sachs, 
and advising the Mexican Government on the privatization of their 
telephone company. He holds an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
    ``I'm very pleased to make this announcement today,'' said President 
Clinton. ``Having someone with Ken Brody's experience and knowledge at 
the helm of the Export-Import Bank will help to ensure the orderly flow 
of trade and the promotion of American exports, a vital part of our 
Nation's economy.''
    The Export-Import Bank of the United States facilitates and aids in 
financing exports of U.S. goods and services. The bank has implemented a 
variety of programs to meet the needs of the U.S. exporting community. 
These programs take the form of direct lending or the issuance of 
guarantees and insurance so that exporters and private banks can extend 
appropriate financing without taking undue risks.