Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 42 (Monday, October 25, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 42 (Monday, October 25, 1993)]
[Page 2106]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Appointment of Members of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental 
Relations

 October 18, 1993

    The President announced his intention to appoint 10 members to the 
Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR) today. Among 
them is former Mississippi Governor William Winter, who will serve as 
ACIR's Chair.
    The Commission was created during the 1970's to foster better 
relations between all levels of government. Its primary functions are to 
provide an intergovernmental problem-solving forum, policy 
recommendations for intergovernmental cooperation, identification of 
emerging issues, information dissemination, and technical and 
international assistance.
    ``As a former Governor and State attorney general, I am committed to 
improving cooperation between governments at all levels,'' said the 
President. ``When people want something done by the government, they 
don't care whether it gets done by the county, by the State, or by the 
Federal Government, they just want the job done. The talented, 
experienced, and diverse group of people that I am appointing to this 
commission, with Governor Winter taking the lead, will work to find ways 
to help public servants at all levels achieve that goal.''
    The commissioners being appointed are:

    William F. Winter, former Governor of Mississippi;
    Carol Browner, EPA Administrator;
    Howard Dean, Governor of Vermont;
    Marcia L. Hale, White House Director of Intergovernmental Affairs;
    Arthur Hamilton, minority leader, Arizona House of Representatives;
    Michael Leavitt, Governor of Utah;
    Bob Miller, Governor of Nevada;
    Gloria Molina, member, Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors;
    Richard Riley, Secretary of Education;
    John Stroger, commissioner of Cook County, IL, and immediate past 
      president of the National Association of Counties.

Note: Biographies of the appointees were made available by the Office of 
the Press Secretary.