Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 30 (Monday, August 2, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 30 (Monday, August 2, 1993)]
[Page 1466]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks in a Telephone Conversation With Frank Harkin

 July 27, 1993

    The President. Hello?

    Agent 218. Yes, hello. Good afternoon. This is Agent 218 of the 
Federal Information Relay Service.

    The President. May I speak with Frank now?

    Agent 218. Yes, he's on line standing by for your conversation.

    The President. Frank, this is Bill Clinton. I'm really glad to be 
able to talk with you now that the text telephone system is in place 
nationwide. And I'm here with your brother, Tom, who just gave a great 
speech.
    If it hadn't been for you, I don't think we would have had all those 
great speeches he made. I just told the crowd here that he made you the 
most famous brother in America last year.
    Mr. Harkin. Gee, thanks.
    The President. He said, ``gee, thanks.''
    Mr. Harkin. Thanks for saying that.
    The President. ``Thanks for saying that.''
    What we all want to know is whether you are wet or dry.
    Mr. Harkin. It is a great moment to talk to you, Mr. President.
    The President. Frank, what we all want to know here is whether you 
are wet or dry. I've been to Iowa twice, and I know how much flooding 
you've had. So tell us how it is around where you live.
    Mr. Harkin. Today it is humid and muggy. I did watch on TV when you 
were in Iowa.
    The President. Well, I just had the Governors of six States, 
including Iowa, in to see me to talk about how we could help people get 
over the flood damage, and I certainly hope we can do a good job of 
that.
    Mr. Harkin. Hopefully you will do your best.
    The President. I want you to tell all the people here with me how 
you like this communications system.
    Mr. Harkin. It is wonderful to have a TV crew from Des Moines in my 
house.
    The President. Well, now I want you to say a word to your brother. 
You have proved that you are a person of fewer words than--[laughter]--
than the President or your brother. Congratulations.
    Senator Harkin. What did he say?
    The President. He's waiting for you.

Note: The President spoke at 3:09 p.m. in the Roosevelt Room at the 
White House. The exchange was part of a ceremony honoring the 
anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. A tape was not 
available for verification of the content of this exchange.