Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29 Issue 7 (Monday, February 22, 1993)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 29, Number 7 (Monday, February 22, 1993)]
[Pages 205-206]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6528--American Heart Month, 1993

 February 14, 1993

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Approximately every 34 seconds, someone in the United States dies of 
some form of heart and blood vessel disease. Heart attack, stroke, and 
other cardiovascular diseases kill nearly one million Americans every 
year.
    Heart diseases and stroke exact an incalculable toll in human pain 
and suffering. More than 70 million Americans, young and old, currently 
suffer from one or more forms of cardiovascular disease. Stroke is the 
leading cause of serious disability and the third leading cause of death 
in the United States. Heart diseases and stroke also cost our Nation 
more than $117 billion in terms of health care expenses and lost 
productivity.
    The Federal Government, through the National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute, and the American Heart Association have spent millions of 
dollars on research into cardiovascular diseases and educational 
programs. That investment was greatly enhanced by the dedicated efforts 
of the Association's 3.7 million volunteers.
    We know how important it is to educate people, particularly young 
people, about the use of tobacco products. We also know that controlling 
blood pressure, eating a diet low in fat and cholesterol, and exercising 
regularly are all prudent ways of reducing the risk of cardiovascular 
disease.
    Advances in both the treatment and the prevention of heart and blood 
vessel diseases have resulted in great progress. From 1980 to 1990 age-
adjusted death rates from heart attack declined 32.6 percent and during 
the same years the death rate from stroke dropped 32.4 percent.
    Although significant progress has been made in the struggle to 
overcome cardiovascular diseases, we must not become complacent. We must 
strengthen and renew our commitment to winning this battle.

[[Page 206]]

    In recognition of the need for all Americans to become involved in 
the ongoing fight against cardiovascular diseases, the Congress, by 
Joint Resolution approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat. 843; 36 U.S.C. 
169b), has requested that the President issue an annual proclamation 
designating February as ``American Heart Month.''
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of February 1993 as 
American Heart Month. I invite the Governors of the States, the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the 
jurisdiction of the United States, and the American people to join me in 
reaffirming our commitment to combatting cardiovascular diseases and 
stroke.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day 
of February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and seventeenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:11 a.m., February 16, 
1993]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on February 15, and was published in the Federal Register on 
February 17.