Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 12 (Monday, March 28, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 12 (Monday, March 28, 2005)]
[Pages 484-485]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks to Seniors in Tucson, Arizona

March 21, 2005

[The President's remarks are joined in progress.]

    The President. ----now it's our turn to sacrifice for future 
generations, and we are. This world is becoming more peaceful, and it's 
because we're free. And that's a lesson we've learned from previous 
generations, that free societies are peaceful societies. You know, I 
have this great faith in the capacity of freedom to make the world a 
better place, so I just want to give you a quick foreign policy report 
and tell you that this world of ours is getting better as more people 
become free.
    I'm also talking, of course, a lot about Social Security. I think 
this is a generational issue, and it's a generational issue because your 
generation has nothing to worry about in terms of getting the promise 
Government has made. There's just no doubt about it. I know there are 
some contradictory statements being made; it's just not true. The 
promise Government has made to those who are retired or near retirement 
will be kept.
    But because the math has changed, because there's a lot of baby 
boomers like me are getting ready to retire, and we're living longer, 
and we're getting bigger benefits than the previous generation, and 
there are fewer workers, we need to worry about not this generation but 
the next generations.
    And that's really what I'm here to tell people in Tucson, is that if 
you're getting your check, you're fine. If you've got a grandkid, you'd 
better ask the political people what they intend to do about making sure 
Social Security, the safety net of Social Security, is available for 
them. And you know, I'm interested in all ideas. I think that this isn't 
a Republican issue or a Democrat issue; this is a national issue that 
requires a national dialog.
    So I want to thank you for giving me the chance to come back to the 
Udall Center. The mayor was telling me what a unique place it is, and he 
wasn't exaggerating.
    Audience member. Yes, it's great.
    The President. It is great--well, I hope so.
    Are you playing a little cards over there? I've got a little time 
for some cards. [Laughter] Anyway, thanks for letting me come by. I'm 
looking forward to meeting you all. Thank you. It's a beautiful city 
you've got here.

Note: The President spoke at 10:51 a.m. at the Morris K. Udall 
Recreation Center. In his remarks, he referred to Mayor Bob Walkup of 
Tucson, AZ. The press release issued by the Office of the Press 
Secretary did not include the complete opening remarks of the President. 
A tape was not available for verification of the content of these 
remarks.

[[Page 485]]