Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 37 (Monday, September 19, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 37 (Monday, September 19, 2005)]
[Page 1400]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks at a Luncheon Hosted by Secretary-General Kofi Annan of the 
United Nations in New York City

September 14, 2005

    Mr. Secretary-General, distinguished members of the United Nations 
community, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our country is 
honored to welcome you to New York. I'm pleased to be with you at the 
60th session of the United Nations General Assembly, this year under the 
leadership of President Eliasson of Sweden.
    We meet at a time of tragedy for this country, when citizens along 
our gulf coast are recovering from Hurricane Katrina. I just want you to 
know that Americans take comfort in knowing that we're not alone. I 
can't thank you enough for the outpouring of international support for 
our brothers and sisters who hurt. This international good will and 
outpouring of support reminds us there is no challenge we cannot 
overcome when the nations of the world unite in common.
    That was the vision of the founders of the United Nations six 
decades ago. Our challenge is to extend this vision into the 21st 
century, and we need a strong United Nations to do so. The United States 
appreciates the commitment of Secretary-General Annan and the General 
Assembly and members of member states to reform the U.N. We have made a 
solid start. More work remains.
    Our ongoing efforts together will be crucial to enable the United 
Nations to fulfill the promises made 60 years ago.
    Mr. Secretary-General, on this important anniversary I offer a toast 
to you and to the United Nations: May the U.N. embody the high ideals of 
its founding in the years to come.

Note: The President spoke at 1:39 p.m. in the North Delegates Lounge at 
the United Nations Headquarters. In his remarks, he referred to Jan 
Eliasson, President of the 60th Session of the United Nations General 
Assembly.