Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 29 (Monday, July 25, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 29 (Monday, July 25, 2005)]
[Pages 1205-1206]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7914--Parents' Day, 2005

 July 21, 2005

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Parents are role models for their children. With patience, 
sacrifice, and love, they teach their children life lessons and prepare 
them for the future. On Parents' Day, we express our gratitude for the 
hard work of parents throughout America and reaffirm our commitment to 
promoting a culture of responsible parenthood.
    Mothers and fathers love their children unconditionally and make 
daily sacrifices to provide for them. Parents create a safe, nurturing 
environment in which their children can grow and learn. By instructing 
their children to make right choices, parents instill lifelong values 
and prepare their children for the challenges and opportunities ahead. 
Parents experience the great joy of watching their sons and daughters 
mature into responsible adults and good citizens.
    On Parents' Day, we recognize the boundless love and generosity of 
all parents, including the foster and adoptive parents who demonstrate 
the compassionate spirit of America.

[[Page 1206]]

We honor parents for their dedication to providing our Nation's children 
with the love and support they need.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush,  President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States and consistent with Public Law 103-362, as 
amended, do hereby proclaim Sunday, July 24, 2005, as Parents' Day. I 
encourage all Americans to express love, respect, and appreciation to 
parents across our Nation. I also call upon citizens to observe this day 
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first 
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand five, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
thirtieth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:09 a.m., July 25, 
2005]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
July 26.