Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 29 (Monday, July 25, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 29 (Monday, July 25, 2005)]
[Pages 1182-1184]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Joint Statement by President George W. Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan 
Singh of India

July 18, 2005

    Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and President Bush today declare their 
resolve to transform the relationship between their countries and 
establish a global partnership. As leaders of nations committed to the 
values of human freedom, democracy and rule of law, the new relationship 
between India and the United States will promote stability, democracy, 
prosperity and peace throughout the world. It will enhance our ability 
to work together to provide global leadership in areas of mutual concern 
and interest.
    Building on their common values and interests, the two leaders 
resolve:
<bullet>    To create an international environment conducive to 
            promotion of democratic values, and to strengthen democratic 
            practices in societies which wish to become more open and 
            pluralistic.
<bullet>    To combat terrorism relentlessly. They applaud the active 
            and vigorous counterterrorism cooperation between the two 
            countries and support more international efforts in this 
            direction. Terrorism is a global scourge and the one we will 
            fight everywhere. The two leaders strongly affirm their 
            commitment to the conclusion by September of a UN 
            comprehensive convention against international terrorism.
    The Prime Minister's visit coincides with the completion of the Next 
Steps in Strategic Partnership (NSSP) initiative, launched in January 
2004. The two leaders agree that this provides the basis for expanding 
bilateral activities and commerce in space, civil nuclear energy and 
dual-use technology.
    Drawing on their mutual vision for the U.S.-India relationship, and 
our joint objectives as strong long-standing democracies, the two 
leaders agree on the following:

For the Economy

<bullet>    Revitalize the U.S.-India Economic Dialogue and launch a CEO 
            Forum to harness private sector energy and ideas to deepen 
            the bilateral economic relationship.
<bullet>    Support and accelerate economic growth in both countries 
            through greater trade, investment, and technology 
            collaboration.
<bullet>    Promote modernization of India's infrastructure as a 
            prerequisite for the continued growth of the Indian economy. 
            As India enhances its investment climate, opportunities for 
            investment will increase.
<bullet>    Launch a U.S.-India Knowledge Initiative on Agriculture 
            focused on promoting teaching, research, service and 
            commercial linkages.

For Energy and the Environment

<bullet>    Strengthen energy security and promote the development of 
            stable and efficient energy markets in India with a view to 
            ensuring adequate, affordable energy supplies and conscious 
            of the need for sustainable development. These issues will 
            be addressed through the U.S.-India Energy Dialogue.

[[Page 1183]]

<bullet>    Agree on the need to promote the imperatives of development 
            and safeguarding the environment, commit to developing and 
            deploying cleaner, more efficient, affordable, and 
            diversified energy technologies.

For Democracy and Development

<bullet>    Develop and support, through the new U.S.-India Global 
            Democracy Initiative in countries that seek such assistance, 
            institutions and resources that strengthen the foundations 
            that make democracies credible and effective. India and the 
            U.S. will work together to strengthen democratic practices 
            and capacities and contribute to the new U.N. Democracy 
            Fund.
<bullet>    Commit to strengthen cooperation and combat HIV/AIDs at a 
            global level through an initiative that mobilizes private 
            sector and government resources, knowledge, and expertise.

For Non-Proliferation and Security

<bullet>    Express satisfaction at the New Framework for the U.S.-India 
            Defense Relationship as a basis for future cooperation, 
            including in the field of defense technology.
<bullet>    Commit to play a leading role in international efforts to 
            prevent the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. 
            The U.S. welcomed the adoption by India of legislation on 
            WMD (Prevention of Unlawful Activities Bill).
<bullet>    Launch a new U.S.-India Disaster Relief Initiative that 
            builds on the experience of the Tsunami Core Group, to 
            strengthen cooperation to prepare for and conduct disaster 
            relief operations.

For High-Technology and Space

<bullet>    Sign a Science and Technology Framework Agreement, building 
            on the U.S.-India High-Technology Cooperation Group (HTCG), 
            to provide for joint research and training, and the 
            establishment of public-private partnerships.
<bullet>    Build closer ties in space exploration, satellite navigation 
            and launch, and in the commercial space arena through 
            mechanisms such as the U.S.-India Working Group on Civil 
            Space Cooperation.
<bullet>    Building on the strengthened nonproliferation commitments 
            undertaken in the NSSP, to remove certain Indian 
            organizations from the Department of Commerce's Entity List.
    Recognizing the significance of civilian nuclear energy for meeting 
growing global energy demands in a cleaner and more efficient manner, 
the two leaders discussed India's plans to develop its civilian nuclear 
energy program.
    President Bush conveyed his appreciation to the Prime Minister over 
India's strong commitment to preventing WMD proliferation and stated 
that as a responsible state with advanced nuclear technology, India 
should acquire the same benefits and advantages as other such states. 
The President told the Prime Minister that he will work to achieve full 
civil nuclear energy cooperation with India as it realizes its goals of 
promoting nuclear power and achieving energy security. The President 
would also seek agreement from Congress to adjust U.S. laws and 
policies, and the United States will work with friends and allies to 
adjust international regimes to enable full civil nuclear energy 
cooperation and trade with India, including but not limited to 
expeditious consideration of fuel supplies for safeguarded nuclear 
reactors at Tarapur. In the meantime, the United States will encourage 
its partners to also consider this request expeditiously. India has 
expressed its interest in ITER and a willingness to contribute. The 
United States will consult with its partners considering India's 
participation. The United States will consult with the other 
participants in the Generation IV International Forum with a view toward 
India's inclusion.
    The Prime Minister conveyed that for his part, India would 
reciprocally agree that it would be ready to assume the same 
responsibilities and practices and acquire the same benefits and 
advantages as other leading countries with advanced nuclear technology, 
such as the United States. These responsibilities and practices consist 
of identifying and separating civilian and military nuclear facilities 
and programs in a phased manner and

[[Page 1184]]

filing a declaration regarding its civilians facilities with the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA); taking a decision to place 
voluntarily its civilian nuclear facilities under IAEA safeguards; 
signing and adhering to an Additional Protocol with respect to civilian 
nuclear facilities; continuing India's unilateral moratorium on nuclear 
testing; working with the United States for the conclusion of a 
multilateral Fissile Material Cut Off Treaty; refraining from transfer 
of enrichment and reprocessing technologies to states that do not have 
them and supporting international efforts to limit their spread; and 
ensuring that the necessary steps have been taken to secure nuclear 
materials and technology through comprehensive export control 
legislation and through harmonization and adherence to Missile 
Technology Control Regime (MTCR) and Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) 
guidelines.
    The President welcomed the Prime Minister's assurance. The two 
leaders agreed to establish a working group to undertake on a phased 
basis in the months ahead the necessary actions mentioned above to 
fulfill these commitments. The President and Prime Minister also agreed 
that they would review this progress when the President visits India in 
2006.
    The two leaders also reiterated their commitment that their 
countries would play a leading role in international efforts to prevent 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, 
chemical, biological and radiological weapons.
    In light of this closer relationship, and the recognition of India's 
growing role in enhancing regional and global security, the Prime 
Minister and the President agree that international institutions must 
fully reflect changes in the global scenario that have taken place since 
1945. The President reiterated his view that international institutions 
are going to have to adapt to reflect India's central and growing role. 
The two leaders state their expectations that India and the United 
States will strengthen their cooperation in global forums.
    Prime Minister Manmohan Singh thanks President Bush for the warmth 
of his reception and the generosity of his hospitality. He extends an 
invitation to President Bush to visit India at his convenience and the 
President accepts that invitation.

Note: An original was not available for verification of the content of 
this joint statement.