Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 46 (Monday, November 21, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 46 (Monday, November 21, 2005)]
[Page 1720]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7962--America Recycles Day, 2005

November 15, 2005

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    On America Recycles Day, we recognize the importance of recycling 
and using products made with recycled materials. Today, Americans 
recycle many items, including motor oil, tires, aluminum cans, plastic, 
glass, batteries, and building materials. These community efforts are 
designed to make a difference in our environment and help improve our 
quality of life.
    The Federal Government is working to expand opportunities for 
recycling across our country. I recently signed into law the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005, which will increase the use of recycled materials in 
Federal construction projects. In addition, the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) operates the Resource Conservation Challenge, a national 
effort to encourage manufacturers, businesses, and consumers to raise 
the national recycling rate to 35 percent. To help achieve this goal, 
the EPA launched the Plug-In To eCycling Campaign in cooperation with 
American businesses. This partnership helps increase awareness about the 
importance of reusing and safely recycling electronics and provides the 
public with additional opportunities to recycle.
    Throughout the year, I encourage individuals, businesses, and 
government entities to participate in recycling programs in their 
communities. These efforts contribute to a culture of responsible 
citizenship and good stewardship of our natural heritage, and they can 
help ensure a cleaner, safer, and healthier environment for our children 
and grandchildren.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 15, 2005, as 
America Recycles Day. I call upon the people of the United States to 
observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day 
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand five, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
thirtieth.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:12 a.m., November 16, 
2005]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on November 16, and it was published in the Federal Register 
on November 17.