Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 42 (Monday, October 24, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 42 (Monday, October 24, 2005)]
[Pages 1551-1552]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following a Meeting With Former Texas Supreme Court Justices

October 17, 2005

    The President. I want to welcome some of my fellow Texans here in 
the Oval Office. We've got Republicans and Democrats, people who have 
been on the court, attorney generals. They're here to send a message 
here in Washington that the person I picked to take Sandra Day 
O'Connor's place is not only a person of high character and of integrity 
but a person who can get the job done.
    Harriet Miers is a uniquely qualified person to serve on the bench. 
She is a smart--she is capable. She is a pioneer. She's been 
consistently ranked as one of the top 50 women lawyers in the United 
States. She has been a leader in the legal profession. She's impressed 
these folks. They know her well. They know that she'll bring excellence 
to the bench.
    So I want to thank you all for coming. Thank you for being part of a 
group of people who understand that Harriet Miers will be a superb 
Supreme Court judge.
    Welcome. I'm glad you're here.
    Justice Hill. Thank you. Mr. President, we just all want to thank 
you for this nomination. We're excited about it, and we're here to try 
to let the people of America know what we all know, that she is an 
absolutely fantastic person and a great lawyer and will make a great 
judge.
    The President. Well, thank you, sir. Appreciate you coming. Thank 
you all.

[[Page 1552]]

Note: The President spoke at 11:27 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. Former Chief Justice John L. Hill, Jr., former Associate Justice 
Greg Abbott, former Associate Justice James A. Baker, former Associate 
Justice Eugene A. Cook, former Associate Justice Craig T. Enoch, and 
former Associate Justice Raul A. Gonzalez, Texas Supreme Court, 
participated in the meeting.