Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 22 (Monday, June 6, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 22 (Monday, June 6, 2005)]
[Pages 940-941]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders Certifying Exports to the People's 
Republic of China

June 2, 2005

Dear Mr. Speaker:  (Dear Mr. President:)

    In accordance with the provisions of section 1512 of the Strom 
Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public 
Law 105-261), I hereby certify that the export to the People's Republic 
of China of the following items is not detrimental to the United States 
space launch industry, and that the material and equipment, including 
any indirect technical benefit that could be derived from such exports, 
will not measurably improve the missile or space launch capabilities of 
the People's Republic of China.

[[Page 941]]

1.           Three kilograms of Hydroxyl Terminated Polybutadiene resin, 
            for the Shaanxi Hengtong Intelligent Machine Company, 
            Limited, located in Xian, People's Republic of China, to be 
            used for a research and development effort to produce a 
            photo-curable resin for stereolithography equipment;
2.           One combined thermal chamber and vibration test system, for 
            the Yongji Electric Machine Factory, located in Yongji, 
            People's Republic of China, to be used for thermal and 
            vibration testing of locomotive engines;
3.           One computer-controlled three-axes filament winding 
            machine, for the Wave Cyber (Shanghai) Company Limited, 
            located in Shanghai, People's Republic of China, to be used 
            for production of small residential and light commercial 
            pressure composite tanks and low pressure fiberglass water 
            softener tanks; and
4.           One 40 gallon double planetary vacuum mixer, for the Indium 
            Corporation (Suzhou) Company Limited, located in Suzhou, 
            People's Republic of China, to produce specialty materials 
            for electronics assemblies, including solder paste.
    Sincerely,
                                                George W. Bush

Note: Identical letters were sent to J. Dennis Hastert, Speaker of the 
House of Representatives, and Richard B. Cheney, President of the 
Senate. This letter was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
June 3.