Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 38 (Monday, September 26, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 38 (Monday, September 26, 2005)]
[Pages 1425-1426]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7933--National Farm Safety and Health Week, 2005

 September 16, 2005

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    As stewards of our natural resources, farmers and ranchers play a 
crucial role in keeping our Nation strong. This year's theme for 
National Farm Safety and Health Week, ``Harvesting Safety and Health,'' 
encourages those in the agriculture industry to practice and promote 
safe working conditions and reminds all Americans of the vital 
contributions of farmers and ranchers to our country.
    Our farming communities embody the American values of hard work, 
faith, love of family, and love of country. Their skill and dedication 
feed, clothe, and provide energy for Americans and others around the 
world.
    Agricultural workers face one of the most hazardous work 
environments in America. Farmers and ranchers operate heavy machinery, 
work in inclement weather, and tend

[[Page 1426]]

livestock. Because of these risks, taking safety precautions is vital 
for agricultural workers. By implementing preventive measures and 
increasing our knowledge of first aid, we can greatly reduce many 
hazards of farm and ranch labor. Utilizing safety features and keeping 
children from working or playing in potentially hazardous areas also can 
limit injuries and help farmers and ranchers protect their families.

    Our farmers and ranchers help keep our Nation strong and advance the 
opportunities that come from freedom. During National Farm Safety and 
Health Week, we recognize the significant contributions of farmers and 
ranchers to our Nation and encourage the further development of work 
environments that will ensure their safety.

    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 18 through 
September 24, 2005, as National Farm Safety and Health Week. I call upon 
the agencies, organizations, and businesses that serve America's 
agricultural workers to continue strengthening their commitment to 
promoting farm safety and health programs. I also urge all Americans to 
recognize the men and women cultivating our land who contribute to the 
vitality and prosperity of our Nation.

    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day 
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand five, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
thirtieth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 
20, 2005]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
September 21. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.