Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41 Issue 45 (Monday, November 14, 2005)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 41, Number 45 (Monday, November 14, 2005)]
[Pages 1695-1696]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Prior to Discussions With President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen

November 10, 2005

    President Bush. Mr. President, welcome. I'm looking forward to our 
discussion. I'm looking forward to our continued work together to make 
sure that Al Qaida and people affiliated with Al Qaida are brought to 
justice.
    Today the world saw with horror the attacks on innocent people in 
Jordan by killers who defile a great religion. I spoke to King Abdullah. 
I expressed our Nation's deep concern and compassion for those who lost 
their lives and their families. The bombings should remind all of us 
that there is an enemy in this world that is willing to kill innocent 
people, willing to bomb a wedding celebration, in order to advance their 
cause. And for those of us who love freedom and for those of us who 
love--who respect every human life, no matter whether you're from the 
West or from your neighborhood, Mr. President, we have an obligation and 
a duty to remain strong, remain firm, and to bring these people to 
justice.
    And so, Mr. President, welcome.
    President Salih. Thank you, Mr. President. I am delighted to have 
this friend--friend, George Bush. This is probably the third meeting 
that we have together. And we discuss a variety of mutual issues, and 
our mutual objective here is the declaration of war against terrorism 
and extremism. We have seen it during 9/11 and after. I am here to 
reaffirm Yemen's position that it is clear and firm, our resolve is 
firm, to continue to

[[Page 1696]]

work with the United States and the international community in combating 
terror.
    Since yesterday, I had the opportunity to have a variety of meetings 
with members of your administration. I am delighted to have the 
opportunity to see you and meet with you today, Mr. President. We will 
have a variety of issues that we will discuss, bilateral issues, as well 
as issues of interest to both the international community and world 
peace and stability.
    I thank you, very much, for your hospitality and for receiving me.
    President Bush. Thank you, sir.

Note: The President spoke at 11:28 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. In his remarks, he referred to King Abdullah II of Jordan. 
President Salih spoke in Arabic, and his remarks were translated by an 
interpreter. A tape was not available for verification of the content of 
these remarks.