Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 29 (Monday, July 21, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 29 (Monday, July 21, 1997)]
[Pages 1080-1081]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Implementation of Revised Air Quality Standards for Ozone 
and Particulate Matter

July 16, 1997

Memorandum for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency

Subject: Implementation of Revised Air Quality Standards for Ozone and 
Particulate Matter

    I have approved the issuance of new air quality standards to provide 
important new health protection for all Americans by further controlling 
pollution from ozone and particulate matter. These new standards promise 
to improve the lives of millions of Americans in coming years.
    Consistent with my Administration's approach to regulatory decision 
making, I also want to ensure that these new standards are implemented 
in a common sense, cost-effective manner. It is critically important 
that these standards be implemented in the most flexible, reasonable, 
and least burdensome manner, and that the Federal Government work with 
State and local governments and other interested parties to this end.
    I have determined that there are certain essential elements of an 
approach to implementation that will accomplish these goals. I direct 
you to use the following elements when implementing the new air quality 
standards:
    1. Implementation of the air quality standards is to be carried out 
      to maximize common sense, flexibility, and cost effectiveness;
    2. Implementation shall ensure that the Nation continues its 
      progress toward cleaner air by respecting the agreements already 
      made by States, communities, and businesses to clean up the air, 
      and by avoiding additional burdens with respect to the beneficial 
      measures already underway in many areas. Implementation also shall 
      be structured to reward State and local governments that take 
      early action to provide clean air to their residents; and to 
      respond to the fact that pollution travels hundreds of miles and 
      crosses many State lines;
    3. Implementation shall ensure that the Environmental Protection 
      Agency (``Agency'') completes its next periodic review of 
      particulate matter, including review by the Clean Air Scientific 
      Advisory Committee, within 5 years of issuance of the new 
      standards, as contemplated by the Clean Air Act. Thus, by July 
      2002, the Agency will have determined, based on data available 
      from its review, whether to revise or maintain the standards. This 
      determination will have been made before any areas have been 
      designated as ``nonattainment'' under the PM<INF>2.5</INF> 
      standards and before imposition of any new controls related to the 
      PM<INF>2.5</INF> standards; and
    4. Implementation is to be accomplished with the minimum amount of 
      paperwork and shall seek to reduce current paperwork requirements 
      wherever possible.
    Excellent preliminary work on the strategy for carrying out these 
implementation principles has been accomplished by an interagency 
Administration group and I commend that group for these important 
efforts. The group's work is set out in the attached plan, which is 
hereby incorporated by reference.
    In order for the implementation of these standards to proceed in 
accordance with the goals I have established, I hereby direct you, in 
consultation with all affected agencies and parties, to undertake the 
steps appropriate under law to carry out the attached plan and to 
complete all necessary guidance and rulemaking no later than December 
31, 1998.

[[Page 1081]]

    This memorandum is for the purposes of internal Administration 
management only, and is not judicially reviewable.
    You are authorized and directed to publish this determination and 
plan in the Federal Register.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:50 p.m., July 17, 
1997]

Note: This memorandum and the implementation plan were published in the 
Federal Register on July 18.