Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 9 (Monday, March 3, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 9 (Monday, March 3, 1997)]
[Pages 266-267]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on the Third Anniversary of the ``Brady Act''

February 28, 1997

    Today marks the third anniversary of the implementation of the Brady 
act--one of the most effective public safety measures ever.
    The facts speak for themselves. Earlier this week, I announced that 
during its first 28 months, the Brady act prevented more than 186,000 
felons, fugitives, and stalkers from buying a handgun. Every month the 
Brady act blocks an average of 6,600 illegal over-the-counter gun sales, 
with indicted or con

[[Page 267]]

victed felons constituting more than 70 percent of the rejections.
    These statistics should end any remaining doubt that might exist. 
The Brady act is working.
    This important public safety measure is the result of the tireless 
efforts of two courageous Americans, Jim and Sarah Brady. The Bradys 
have waged a moral and political battle to save lives and to keep 
handguns out of the hands of criminals. Their dedication to ending gun 
violence and making our streets safer is an inspiration to law 
enforcement and all Americans. Last year, I was deeply honored to bestow 
upon Jim the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest honor our Nation 
can bestow on a citizen.
    I look forward to working with the Bradys to pass my antigang and 
youth violence legislation, which will require child safety locks for 
all handguns and apply the Brady act to anyone who has committed a 
violent juvenile offense.

Note: Public Law 103-159, ``To provide for a waiting period before the 
purchase of a handgun, and for the establishment of a national instant 
criminal background check system to be contacted by firearms dealers 
before the transfer of any firearm,'' approved November 30, 1993, took 
effect on February 28, 1994.