Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 35 (Monday, September 1, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 35 (Monday, September 1, 1997)]
[Pages 1268-1269]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message on the Observance of Labor Day, 1997

August 29, 1997

    Warm greetings to all Americans as we commemorate our nation's 103rd 
Labor Day holiday.
    This year, we have cause to celebrate on behalf of the men and women 
who toil to help secure our country's economic well-being, because on 
this Labor Day the minimum wage increases to $5.15 per hour. This

[[Page 1269]]

raise will help nearly 10 million hard-working Americans build a better 
future. Thomas Jefferson once said, ``In matters of principle, stand 
like a rock.'' This increase in the minimum wage affirms our commitment 
to ``stand like a rock'' for our working families and their right to 
jobs that provide fair compensation.
    As we celebrate Labor Day, we should also give thanks to those who 
came before us and who strived to improve working conditions and create 
fair labor laws. Many risked their livelihoods and often their very 
lives to ensure that children, who once worked in mines and factories, 
could go to school; that laborers could work without risking injury; and 
that Americans who toiled throughout the week would be rewarded with a 
decent living and time to raise their families. These reformers brought 
dignity to the workplace and integrity to our society.
    Workers are the heart and soul of our nation. Yet, we will only see 
wages grow and the number of jobs steadily increase for those workers if 
we emphasize education and training, partnership between labor and 
management, and responsibility by all for improving the quality of the 
goods and services we produce. In the twilight of this century, it is 
our responsibility to prepare our workers for the challenges of the 
next. As we pause today to celebrate the many contributions of the 
American worker, let us rededicate ourselves to this important effort.
    Best wishes to all for a memorable Labor Day.
                                                  Bill Clinton