Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 28 (Monday, July 14, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 28 (Monday, July 14, 1997)]
[Pages 1039-1040]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks at the Signing Ceremony for the NATO-Ukraine Charter in Madrid

July 9, 1997

    Secretary General, fellow leaders, ladies and gentlemen. From the 
four quarters of our alliance, we have come to Madrid to build a new 
Europe, where old divides are bridged by new ties of friendship and 
cooperation, where we recognize no spheres of influence but instead the 
influence of shared ideals.
    Today we take another step toward that new Europe with the signing 
of this charter between a new NATO and a democratic Ukraine. From the 
moment we declared this goal last fall, all have worked hard toward this 
day. I thank President Kuchma for his vision and courage in leading his 
great nation down the path of reform. I also thank Secretary General 
Solana for his efforts on behalf of our alliance.
    This charter launches a closer relationship between NATO and Ukraine 
that will benefit

[[Page 1040]]

both. It lays a foundation for consultation and cooperation. It welcomes 
Ukraine as our partner in building an undivided Europe.
    Over the last 2 months, Ukraine's bold steps have made this 
continent more stable and more secure through its treaty of friendship 
and cooperation with Russia, its border agreement with Romania, its 
declaration of reconciliation with Poland. Now an open dialog and joint 
activities with NATO will help Ukraine solidify reform and strengthen 
stability throughout Europe.
    This charter reflects and reinforces the way this continent has 
changed. Ukraine has emerged from a century of struggle to pursue the 
highest standards of dignity and freedom. It is tackling tough economic 
reform. It has been a leader in reducing the nuclear danger. It has 
embarked on a course of peaceful integration with the community of 
democracies. NATO also has evolved to meet these new times with new 
missions, new members, a stronger Partnership For Peace, and now new 
partners, with Russia and, of course, today with Ukraine.
    Today, Europe's security is not a matter of competition but of 
cooperation on behalf of common goals. It is natural for Ukraine to 
reach out to NATO and for NATO to do the same, helping to secure Ukraine 
firmly in the heart of a new, undivided democratic Europe.
    May the charter we sign today be just the opening page in a long 
history of unity, partnership, and peace that NATO and Ukraine will 
write together.
    Thank you.

Note: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. at the Palacio Municipal de 
Congresos. In his remarks, he referred to NATO Secretary General Javier 
Solana and President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine. As part of the transcript 
of the President's remarks, the Office of the Press Secretary also made 
available the remarks of Prime Minister Aznar of Spain, NATO Secretary 
General Solana, and President Kuchma of Ukraine. A tape was not 
available for verification of the content of these remarks.