Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 12 (Monday, March 24, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 12 (Monday, March 24, 1997)]
[Pages 391-392]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Russia-United States Joint Statement on Chemical Weapons

March 21, 1997

    President Clinton and President Yeltsin discussed issues relating to 
the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the 
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on 
Their Destruction. They stressed the commitment of the United States and 
Russia to full and effective accomplishment of the tasks and objectives 
of the convention.
    The Presidents reaffirmed their intention to take the steps 
necessary to expedite ratification in each of the two countries. 
President Clinton expressed his determination that the United States be 
a party when the Convention enters into force in April of this year, and 
is strongly urging prompt Senate action. President Yeltsin noted that 
the Convention had been submitted to the Duma with his strong 
recommendation for prompt ratification.
    Mindful of their special role and responsibility in the matter of 
chemical disarmament, the United States and Russia understand that their 
participation in the Convention is important to its effective 
implementation and universality.
    The Presidents noted that cooperation between the two countries in 
the prohibition of chemical weapons has enabled both countries to 
enhance openness regarding their military chemical potential and to gain 
experience with procedures and measures for verifying compliance with 
the Chemical Weapons Convention. The Parties will continue cooperation 
between them in chemical disarmament.
    The United States will seek appropriation of necessary funds to 
build a facility for the

[[Page 392]]

destruction of neuroparalytic toxins in Russia as previously agreed.

Note: An original was not available for verification of the content of 
this joint statement.