Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 26 (Monday, June 30, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 26 (Monday, June 30, 1997)]
[Pages 920-921]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Joint Statement by France, Russia, and the United States on the Nagorno-
Karabakh Conflict

June 20, 1997

    On the occasion of our meeting in Denver, we, the Presidents of 
France, the Russian Federation and the United States of America, as 
leaders of the countries that co-chair the OSCE Minsk Conference on 
Nagorno-Karabakh, express our deep concern over the continuing Nagorno-
Karabakh conflict. It has seriously undermined economic and social 
development and prosperity throughout the Caucasus region. It has 
created thousands of victims. Over a million people are still displaced 
from their homes.
    We are encouraged by the continued observance of the cease-fire. 
However, the cease-fire by itself is insufficient. Without progress 
toward a durable settlement, the cease-fire could break down. The 
international community thus has repeatedly called for a settlement; we 
believe there should be no delay in establishing a stable and lasting 
peace in the region.
    To that end we have committed our countries to work closely together 
to assist the efforts of the parties to negotiate a resolution to the 
conflict. The French, Russian, and U.S. Co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk 
Conference have presented a new proposal for a comprehensive settlement, 
taking into consideration the legitimate interests and concerns of all 
parties. It represents an appropriate basis for achieving a mutual 
agreement. The primary responsibility, however, rests with the parties 
and their leaders. We call upon them to take a positive approach, to 
build upon this proposal and to negotiate an early settlement.

Note: An original was not available for verification of the content of 
this joint statement. This item was not received in time for publication 
in the appropriate issue.

[[Page 921]]