Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33 Issue 41 (Monday, October 13, 1997)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 33, Number 41 (Monday, October 13, 1997)]
[Pages 1525-1526]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1998

October 8, 1997

    I have today signed into law H.R. 2266, the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1998.
    This bill provides for a strong national defense, maintains high 
military readiness, funds investment programs necessary to modernize the 
equipment that our combat forces use, and supports our commitments to a 
better quality of life for our service personnel and their families. By 
providing the necessary support for our armed forces, this bill ensures 
continuing American global leadership.
    As President, I have a solemn obligation to provide for the defense 
of our country. My Administration has designed a coherent strategy to 
provide the necessary military forces to deter and prevail over the 
threats we may face.
    I remain deeply concerned, however, that the funding provided in 
this bill is excessive. The bill provides $4.2 billion more than I 
requested in my 1998 budget, and $1.2 billion more than the levels that 
my Administration believes was agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget 
Agreement.
    Further, section 8080 of the Act contains certain reporting 
requirements that could materially interfere with or impede this 
country's ability to provide necessary support to another nation or 
international organization in connection with peacekeeping or 
humanitarian assistance activities other-wise authorized by law. I will 
interpret this provision consistent with my constitutional authority to 
conduct the foreign relations of the United States and my 
responsibilities as Commander in Chief.
    My Administration is continuing discussions with the Congress on the 
remaining 1998 spending bills in order to protect important priorities 
in education and training, the environment, science and technology, law 
enforcement, and international affairs. Over the past several days, we 
have made progress in good-faith discussions with the leadership of the 
House and the Senate Appropriations Committees to close the gap between 
us. It is critical that these discussions continue with the goal of 
reaching a satisfactory conclusion as rapidly as possible.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
October 8, 1997.

Note: H.R. 2266, approved October 8, was assigned Public Law No. 105-56.

[[Page 1526]]