Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 6 (Monday, February 12, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 6 (Monday, February 12, 1996)]
[Pages 214-215]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6865--150th Anniversary of the Smithsonian Institution

February 7, 1996

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    When James Smithson, an English scientist, died in 1829, he gave his 
entire estate ``to the United States of America, to found at Washington, 
under the name Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the 
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.'' This extraordinary 
gift, amounting to one and one-half times the Federal budget of the day, 
led to passage of an Act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian 
Institution. Signed by President James Polk on August 10, 1846, this 
legislation created a Board of Regents to oversee the execution of 
Smithson's trust.
    Today, 150 years later, the Smithsonian Institution is famed around 
the globe, and its collections are enjoyed by thousands of Americans and 
foreign visitors every day. Through dedicated original research, the 
preservation of an unequaled collection of artifacts, and the 
presentation of public exhibitions and programs, the Smithsonian truly 
embodies its benefactor's dream. As one of

[[Page 215]]

the foremost repositories of American heritage and culture, the 
Institution provides unique insight into our history and the development 
of our vibrant national character.
    As we celebrate the sesquicentennial of the Smithsonian Institution, 
let us recognize the work done by its many museums, research facilities, 
and educational endeavors and rededicate ourselves to the ``increase and 
diffusion of knowledge'' James Smithson sought to advance. In doing so, 
we can more fully explore the wonders of our world and continue to bring 
people together for the common pursuit of knowledge.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, and in honor of the memory 
of James Smithson and to commemorate the accomplishments of the 
Smithsonian Institution, do hereby proclaim August 10, 1996, as the 
150th Anniversary of the Smithsonian Institution and urge the people of 
the United States to observe this anniversary with appropriate 
ceremonies and activities.
    In Witness Whereof,  I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of 
February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:01 a.m., February 8, 
1996]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
February 9.