Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 38 (Monday, September 23, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 38 (Monday, September 23, 1996)]
[Pages 1814-1815]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks in Woodland, Washington

September 19, 1996

    Hello. Thank you. It's a lot dryer than it was the last time I was 
here, on Valentine's Day. I'm glad to see you all. And I am so thankful 
that you're out here. I don't know if you can hear, but the Vice 
President and I are glad to be here, and we're glad to be here with Gary 
Locke and Monalea Locke, and I hope--[applause].
    Thank you so much for coming out. Where's Brian Baird? Is he here? 
Democratic nominee for Congress, Brian Baird.
    Folks, when I was here after the flood, I was so impressed with all 
of you--is this better? Is it better? [Applause]
    When I was here after the flood, I was so impressed with all of you 
I talked about it for months and months and months. And I wrote a book 
to prepare for the campaign to tell the American people what I wanted to 
do in 4 more years and where I wanted our country to go. And I have a 
couple of mentions in that book of the day I spent here with you, the 
people I met, and the impression you made on me. So I came back here to 
thank you for what you did in demonstrating the best of America.
    I want to introduce the Vice President. He wants to say a word or 
two. And we want to get out and shake hands, but in 6 weeks and 5 days 
we're going to elect the last President of the 20th century, the first 
President of the 21st century. We have worked hard to put this country 
on the right track. We are better off than we were 4 years ago, but 
we've got a lot left to do.
    Will you help us build that bridge to the 21st century? [Applause]

[[Page 1815]]

    We need you. Thank you. God bless you. We're glad to be here. Say 
hello to Vice President Gore.

Note: the President spoke at 7:03 p.m. In his remarks, he referred to 
Brian Baird, candidate for 3d congressional district. A tape was not 
available for verification of the content of these remarks.