Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 15 (Monday, April 15, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 15 (Monday, April 15, 1996)]
[Page 630]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6879--National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day, 1996

April 5, 1996

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Throughout our history, America's Armed Forces have stood proudly in 
defense of the United States and of freedom everywhere. Countless 
courageous service men and women have given their lives for our Nation, 
and many others have sacrificed their own freedom as prisoners of war so 
that the cause of liberty might prevail.
    Enduring with patience and determination, prisoners of war are a 
powerful reminder that the indomitable spirit of the American soldier 
cannot be broken, even by brutal treatment in violation of international 
law and morality. In Nazi Germany, Japan, North Korea, Vietnam, and 
Iraq, prisoners of war repeatedly demonstrated their devotion to duty, 
honor, and country, despite the often terrible suffering inflicted upon 
them by their captors.
    On this day and throughout the year, let us honor all who have borne 
the indignities of captivity in service to our country, remember the 
brave soldiers who died as prisoners in foreign lands during our 
Nation's past struggles, and recognize those at home who anxiously 
awaited their loved ones' return. Their faith in God, love of family, 
and trust in our Nation are an inspiration to all Americans, and we will 
always remember their sacrifices.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 9, 
1996, as National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day. I ask all 
Americans to join me in honoring former American prisoners of war who 
suffered at the hands of our enemies, and I call upon Federal, State, 
and local officials and private organizations to observe this day with 
appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:26 p.m., April 8, 
1996]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on April 8, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
April 9.