Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 3 (Monday, January 22, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 3 (Monday, January 22, 1996)]
[Page 78]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders on Continuation of the Emergency With 
Respect to Terrorists Who Threaten To Disrupt the Middle East Peace 
Process

January 18, 1996

Dear Mr. Speaker:    (Dear Mr. President:)

    Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President 
publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice 
stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the 
anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent the 
enclosed notice, stating that the emergency declared with respect to 
grave acts of violence committed by foreign terrorists that disrupt the 
Middle East peace process is to continue in effect beyond January 23, 
1996, to the Federal Register for publication.
    The crisis with respect to the grave acts of violence committed by 
foreign terrorists that threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace 
process that lead to the declaration on January 23, 1995, of a national 
emergency has not been resolved. Terrorist groups continue to engage in 
activities with the purpose or effect of threatening the Middle East 
peace process, and that are hostile to U.S. interests in the region. 
Such actions threaten vital interests of the national security, foreign 
policy, and economy of the United States. For these reasons, I have 
determined that it is necessary to maintain in force the broad 
authorities necessary to deny any financial support from the United 
States for foreign terrorists that threaten to disrupt the Middle East 
peace process.
    Sincerely,
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: Identical letters were sent to Newt Gingrich, Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, and Albert Gore, Jr., President of the Senate. This 
letter was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on January 19.