Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 16 (Monday, April 22, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 16 (Monday, April 22, 1996)]
[Pages 685-686]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Arrival in St. Petersburg, Russia

April 18, 1996

Tragedy in Lebanon

    Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this welcome to St. Petersburg. 
I am very pleased to begin my visit to Russia here, a city so alive with 
promise and possibility. I have looked forward to this day for a long 
time, and I very much look forward to my opportunity to see the city 
tomorrow.
    Let me begin, however, by saying I arrived at a somber moment. On 
behalf of the Amer- 

[[Page 686]]

ican people, I want to express my deepest condolences to the Government 
of Lebanon and to the families of those who were killed and wounded this 
morning in South Lebanon. I also offer my condolences to the Government 
of Fiji over the casualties among its U.N. peacekeeping personnel.
    Today's events make painfully clear the importance of bringing an 
end to the current violence in Lebanon. To achieve that goal I call upon 
all parties to agree to an immediate cease-fire. An end to the fighting 
is essential to allow our diplomatic efforts to go forward.
    Before leaving Tokyo, I directed Secretary of State Christopher to 
travel to the Middle East to work out a set of understandings that would 
lead to an enduring end to this crisis. Special Middle East Coordinator 
Dennis Ross will travel to the region in advance of Secretary 
Christopher to begin this process.
    Resolving the current situation will not only stop human suffering, 
it will help us all to make further progress toward our goal of a 
comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. But let me say 
again, we should begin with an immediate cease-fire.
    Thank you.

Note: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. at Pulkova Airport. A tape was 
not available for verification of the content of these remarks.