Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 21 (Monday, May 27, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 21 (Monday, May 27, 1996)]
[Page 887]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message on the Observance of Armed Forces Day

May 17, 1996

    For forty-seven years, Armed Forces Day has been celebrated by the 
citizens of our great nation in recognition of our faith in America's 
men and women in uniform. This year's theme, ``America's Armed Forces: 
Pillars of Freedom,'' is a testament to the quiet strength and steadfast 
resolve with which you, the members of the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air 
Force, and Coast Guard, uphold the standards of liberty around the 
world.
    Day in and day out, under demanding and often perilous 
circumstances, you put your skills, your energy, and your very lives on 
the line in the service of your nation and your fellow citizens. Whether 
advancing peace in Bosnia, protecting democracy in Haiti, offering 
humanitarian aid to those in need, or remaining vigilant to the threats 
of tyrants and terrorists, you have set a shinning example of service 
for all Americans, inspiring our young people and fulfilling our trust 
in you.
    As Commander in Chief, I am proud that you are the best-trained, 
best-equipped, and best-led fighting force in the world. But we cannot 
rest on this record. On this Armed Forces Day, we must rededicate 
ourselves to keeping the U.S. military strong and confident--sustaining 
these true pillars that support freedom throughout the world.
    I salute you for your courage and dedication in serving your 
country's cause, wherever and whenever you are called upon to do so, and 
on behalf of a grateful nation, I thank you for what you have done and 
continue to do to keep America strong and free.
    Best wishes for a memorable observance.
                                                  Bill Clinton

Note: This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.