Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 32 (Monday, August 12, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 32 (Monday, August 12, 1996)]
[Pages 1402-1403]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing Legislation on Most-Favored-Nation Status for 
Romania

August 3, 1996

    Today I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 3161, authorizing the 
termination of the application of title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 to 
Romania. Under the provisions of this bill,

[[Page 1403]]

the President may grant permanent most-favored-nation (MFN) status to 
Romania.
    This is an important milestone in U.S.-Romanian relations. Romania 
now joins other emerging democracies in Central Europe from which the 
United States has fully removed trade restrictions that originated in 
concerns about emigration practices during the Cold War. My approval of 
this bill reflects the strong U.S. support for the citizens of Romania 
in their efforts to overcome the legacy of decades of communist 
repression and to establish a full democracy based on respect for human 
rights, the rule of law, tolerance, and free market economics.
    This legislation enjoys strong bipartisan support in the United 
States, and I note that the granting of permanent MFN has the support of 
many Romanian leaders across the political spectrum.
    Romania's excellent record in respecting the right of free 
emigration, its considerable progress in establishing the fundamentals 
of a free market democracy and its strong cooperation with the United 
States helped facilitate passage of this bill. I am confident that 
Romania, as it proceeds toward integration with the Western democratic 
community, will continue its progress and intensify efforts to make 
democratic, free market reforms, develope good relations with its 
democratic neighbors and reach out to Romania's ethnic and religious 
minorities.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
August 3, 1996.

Note: H.R. 3161, approved August 3, was assigned Public Law No. 104-171.