Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 50 (Monday, December 16, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 50 (Monday, December 16, 1996)]
[Pages 2506-2507]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting the Report on Cyprus

December 13, 1996

Dear Mr. Speaker:  (Dear Mr. Chairman:)

    In accordance with Public Law 95-384 (22 U.S.C. 2373(c)), I submit 
this report on progress toward a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus 
question. The previous submission covered progress through July 31, 
1996. The current submission covers the period August 1, 1996, through 
September 30, 1996.
    I regret that intercommunal violence, including unprecedented 
killings of civilians, dominated events in Cyprus during this re

[[Page 2507]]

porting period. These incidents raised intercommunal tensions to their 
worst level in many years and complicated efforts aimed at achieving a 
lasting solution to the Cyprus dispute. In meetings with the two Cypriot 
communities and the governments of Greece and Turkey, my representatives 
noted that the violence underscored the unsustainability of the status 
quo and the need for redoubled efforts toward a negotiated settlement. 
They advised that provocative rhetoric and actions be avoided to permit 
intercommunal relations to move onto a more constructive track. Similar 
calls were made by the United Nations and the European Union.
    Notwithstanding the tragic events of August and September, my 
Administration remains committed to promoting a lasting peace on the 
island. Given the urgency of the current situation, we are appealing 
again for the implementation of practical measures to reduce the 
potential for conflict. We remain hopeful that both sides will recognize 
the importance of such measures and put them into immediate effect.
    Sincerely,
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: Identical letters were sent to Newt Gingrich, Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, and Jesse Helms, chairman, Senate Committee on 
Foreign Relations.