Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 38 (Monday, September 23, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 38 (Monday, September 23, 1996)]
[Pages 1772-1773]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1997

September 16, 1996

    I have today signed into law H.R. 3754, the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1997.''
    The Act provides fiscal year 1997 appropriations for the Congress, 
the Congressional Budget Office, the Architect of the Capitol, the 
General Accounting Office, the Government Printing Office, and the 
Library of Congress.
    I am especially pleased to sign into law a provision that will allow 
blind and visually impaired persons to get earlier access to books and 
other reading matter. As a result of an agreement between the publishing 
in- 

[[Page 1773]]

dustry and advocates for people with disabilities, books can now be 
converted into alternative formats such as Braille as soon as they 
appear in print. Prior to this change, the Library of Congress and other 
organizations that sought to provide these materials had to obtain 
permission from copyright holders on a case by case basis, leading to 
lengthy delays in access to all types of reading material. This law will 
help us reach our goal of full inclusion of people with disabilities.
    I am also pleased with the provision that encourages the Senate to 
transfer excess or surplus computers and other educationally useful 
equipment to public schools at the lowest possible cost. This 
complements our initiative to encourage Federal agencies to do the same 
to help integrate technology into school curriculums, and ensure that 
all students have the skills they will need to succeed in the 
information-intensive 21st century.
    I am disappointed, however, that the Congress has passed up yet 
another opportunity to establish a drug testing policy for those who 
work in the legislative branch. The Congress should follow the example 
of the White House and the other executive branch agencies and establish 
a comprehensive testing program for illegal drug use.
    I urge the Congress to complete action on the remaining regular FY 
1997 appropriations bills and to send them to me in an acceptable form.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
September 16, 1996.

Note: H.R. 3754, approved September 16, was assigned Public Law No. 104-
197. This statement was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
September 17.