Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 37 (Monday, September 16, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 37 (Monday, September 16, 1996)]
[Pages 1693-1694]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6915--America Goes Back to School, 1996

September 9, 1996

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Education is the foundation of our economy and society as we stand 
at the dawn of the 21st century. Education provides every American with 
the tools to make the most of their own lives and to seize the 
tremendous opportunities of economic growth and change. Education also 
passes along to our young people the most fundamental American values: 
family, responsibility, and community. To make the next century another 
American century--and to help all of our communities to become 
prosperous and strong--more parents and community members must become 
involved in improving our local schools and colleges. Better education 
is everybody's business. When families, educators, and communities work 
together, we can truly build a bridge to a better, stronger 21st 
century.
    The American people want the best for their children. Our schools 
should be safe, disciplined, and drug-free environments where parents 
are involved and children can learn. Our educators and administrators 
should continue to aim for the highest standards of academic excellence 
and professional accountability. Together we must rebuild the Nation's 
schools for the 21st century. We must make the investments needed to 
allow our children to learn about the computers and technology that are 
the building blocks of the future. We must make college more accessible. 
We must expand public school choice and competition. And we must make it 
easier to move from school to work.
    Children are our greatest natural resource: Although they are only 
20 percent of our population, they are 100 percent of our future. From 
safe schools to better training for our teachers, from raising standards 
in our schools to increasing financial aid for college for middle-income 
and working families,

[[Page 1694]]

from literacy for children to retraining for adults, we must ensure that 
all of our children get a chance to fulfill the American Dream.
    I urge all Americans to be meaningfully involved in their local 
schools and colleges and to make a commitment to support educational 
improvement throughout the year. I applaud the Partnership for Family 
Involvement in Education, a joint effort involving the Department of 
Education and more than 700 schools, family organizations, community 
groups, religious communities, family-oriented businesses, and the men 
and women of our Armed Forces, for sponsoring ``America Goes Back to 
School: Get Involved!'' I hope that this observance will foster grass-
roots support for better education by engaging parents, educators, and 
community groups as active partners in strengthening schools and 
strengthening families. When Americans come together as a community, we 
can make real progress. By taking a more active role, we as a Nation 
will raise our expectations for both our children and ourselves.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 
8 through September 14, 1996, as a time when America Goes Back to 
School. I invite parents, schools, community and State leaders, 
businesses, civic and religious organizations, and the people of the 
United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and 
activities expressing support for high academic standards and family and 
community involvement in schools and colleges, and to continue their 
active involvement on behalf of America's children throughout the year.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of 
September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twenty-first.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 11, 
1996]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
September 12.