Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 13 (Monday, April 1, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 13 (Monday, April 1, 1996)]
[Pages 589-590]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6876--Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A., 1996

March 29, 1996

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    In looking forward to the 21st century, we recognize that excellence 
in education is the key to our Nation's future. At a time when we face 
difficult choices about how best to strengthen that future, our 
commitment to meaningful education for our youth must remain absolutely 
firm--we have a profound obligation to put children's needs first and to 
make the essential investments that will help them succeed.
    Throughout his distinguished life, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson 
was an advocate for the high-quality education and strong values young 
people need to become productive and caring citizens. Drawing on a deep 
tradition of faith and a dedication to strengthening family and 
community ties, the Lubavitcher Rebbe sought to help our youth become 
responsible leaders and moral thinkers.
    On this day and throughout the year, let us join parents, teachers, 
and concerned people everywhere who are following Rabbi Schneerson's 
example by empowering young people with essential skills and knowledge. 
By nurturing their minds and spirits together, we can help our children 
to embrace all of the exciting challenges ahead.

[[Page 590]]

    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 31, 
1996, as Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A. I call upon educators, 
volunteers, and all the people of the United States to observe this day 
with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth 
day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:55 a.m., April 1, 
1996]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
April 2.