Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 7 (Monday, February 19, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 7 (Monday, February 19, 1996)]
[Page 293]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on the Interim Report of the Presidential Advisory Committee 
on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses

February 14, 1996

    I am pleased to accept the interim report of the Presidential 
Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses. Dr. Joyce Lashof and 
the Committee members have made an impressive start on helping to ensure 
that we are doing all we can both to determine the causes of the 
illnesses Gulf war veterans are suffering from, and to provide effective 
medical care to those in need.
    I am pleased that the Committee's interim report recognizes the 
serious efforts underway in the administration to restore these men and 
women to good health. I know that the Departments of Defense, Health and 
Human Services, and Veterans Affairs will review the recommendations 
contained in this report and will continue the research, outreach, and 
medical programs needed to improve the lives of Gulf war veterans and 
their families.
    I have asked Secretary William Perry, Secretary Donna Shalala, and 
Secretary Jesse Brown to develop an action plan for implementing the 
recommendations in the interim report. I am also asking the Departments 
to continue their record of full cooperation with the Advisory Committee 
as it prepares its final report over the next 10 months.
    As I said last March when announcing my intention to establish the 
Advisory Committee, 5 years ago we relied on these Gulf war veterans to 
fight for our country; they must now be able to rely on us to try to 
determine why they are ill and to help restore them to full health. We 
are all indebted to the Presidential Advisory Committee on Gulf War 
Veterans' Illnesses for its contribution to this critical task. I look 
forward to reviewing their final recommendations later this year.