Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 39 (Monday, September 30, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 39 (Monday, September 30, 1996)]
[Pages 1866-1867]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing Legislation To Extend Most-Favored-Nation Status to 
Cambodia

September 25, 1996

    Today I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 1642, a bill to extend 
most-favored-nation (MFN) status to Cambodia after a bilateral trade 
agreement between the United States and Cambodia has entered into force.
    This legislation is an important milestone in U.S.-Cambodian 
relations. The United States was a major supporter of the United Nations 
Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), a peacekeeping success that 
led to free and fair elections in 1993 and the establishment of the 
Royal Government of Cambodia. The United States supports efforts in 
Cambodia to strengthen democratic institutions, promote human rights, 
and foster economic development.
    Most-favored-nation status will make it possible for Cambodia's 
private sector to realize its full development potential and will 
further improve the access American firms enjoy in Cambodia. United 
States export financing programs now will be able to go forward to the 
extent possible under the criteria established by relevant governing 
statutes. MFN will open the door to significant future opportunities as 
Cambodia seeks to join the Association of South East Asian Nations 
(ASEAN) and takes steps to integrate itself into the dynamic regional 
economy of Southeast Asia.

    My approval of this legislation reflects the strong U.S. support for 
the people of Cambodia in their efforts to overcome a tragic past and 
establish a democracy based on human rights and market economy reforms.

    While I recognize that the process of democratization and 
development in Cambodia has not been easy, I believe MFN status will 
make an important contribution to achieving

[[Page 1867]]

our policy goals for a peaceful, prosperous, and free Cambodia. I am 
confident that with the support of the international community, Cambodia 
will continue to make progress and strengthen its efforts at economic 
reform and greater protection of human rights.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
September 25, 1996.

Note: H.R. 1642, approved September 25, was assigned Public Law No. 104-
203.