Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 24 (Monday, June 17, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 24 (Monday, June 17, 1996)]
[Pages 1059-1060]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6904--Father's Day, 1996

June 13, 1996

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    America owes a debt of gratitude to the fathers that help our 
Nation's children grow up safe and happy. Providing a wellspring of love 
for their families to draw upon, these men strengthen our communities 
and enable their daughters and sons to master life's lessons with 
confidence. They share with us their experiences and energies, creating 
the strong foundation on which our children build their lives. A 
father's arm is there to protect and steer--whether cradling a newborn 
baby, steadying the rider of a first two-wheeler, or walking his child 
down the aisle.
    Fatherhood provides one of life's most profound joys and one of its 
most solemn responsibilities. Everyone who has been blessed by a 
father's love knows the abiding respect it inspires and the self-esteem 
that can grow from a dad's affectionate guidance.

[[Page 1060]]

We must do all we can to encourage fathers as they strive to provide the 
fundamental emotional and economic support that helps ensure their 
families' well-being. Programs like the Fatherhood Initiative, the 
Responsible Fatherhood Project, and Parent's Fair Share work to support 
American fathers, emphasize their role as mentors and providers, and 
advocate their involvement in their children's health and education.
    On this Father's Day and throughout the year, let us thank fathers 
for their sacrifices and struggles and celebrate the special care they 
give their loved ones every day. With grateful words and actions, we 
honor all those who have embraced fatherhood's unique rewards.
    Now Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States 
of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress 
approved April 24, 1972 (36 U.S.C. 142a), do hereby proclaim Sunday, 
June 16, 1996, as Father's Day. I invite the States, communities, and 
all the citizens of the United States to observe this day with 
appropriate ceremonies and activities that demonstrate our deep 
appreciation and affection for our fathers.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day 
of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., June 17, 
1996]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on June 14, and it will be published in the Federal Register 
on June 18.