Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 42 (Monday, October 21, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 42 (Monday, October 21, 1996)]
[Pages 2095-2096]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting a Notice on Colombian 
Narcotics Traffickers

October 16, 1996

Dear Mr. Speaker:  (Dear Mr. President:)

    Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President 
publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice 
stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the 
anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent the 
enclosed notice to the Federal Register for publication, stating that 
the emergency declared with respect to significant narcotics traffickers 
centered in Colombia is to continue in effect for 1 year beyond October 
21, 1996.
    The circumstances that led to the declaration on October 21, 1995, 
of a national emergency have not been resolved. The actions of 
significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia continue to pose 
an unusual and

[[Page 2096]]

extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and the 
economy of the United States and to cause unparalleled violence, 
corruption, and harm in the United States and abroad. For these reasons, 
I have determined that it is necessary to maintain in force the broad 
authorities necessary to maintain economic pressure on significant 
narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia by blocking their property 
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and by depriving them 
of access to the U.S. market and financial system.
    Sincerely,
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: Identical letters were sent to Newt Gingrich, Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, and Albert Gore, Jr., President of the Senate. This 
letter was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on October 17.