Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32 Issue 10 (Monday, March 11, 1996)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 32, Number 10 (Monday, March 11, 1996)]
[Pages 438-445]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks in a Roundtable Discussion at the White House Leadership 
Conference on Youth, Drug Use, and Violence in Greenbelt

March 7, 1996

    The President. Well, hello and good afternoon. Let me again thank 
all of you who are participating and all of you who came to the White 
House yesterday. I know that the event which we just held with the 
students at Eleanor Roosevelt was shown here, so I have no further 
introductory remarks. I'm anxious to get to the panel, except to say one 
thing briefly.
    In the 12 years that I served as the Governor, when I had the 
opportunity not only to go to every community in my State but from time 
to time to travel throughout the country, I saw a modern example of what 
the framers of the Constitution intended when they set up State 
governments, and they basically devolved a certain amount of authority 
throughout our country. They wanted the States and, ultimately, 
communities to be laboratories of democracy. And they thought, the 
people who set our country up, that once in any laboratory a solution to 
a problem was found it would be like science, that that then would be 
adopted and people would go on to another set of problems.
    What I think is happening in our country is that nearly every 
serious challenge we face has been dealt with brilliantly by somebody, 
somewhere, whether it's in education or in dealing with the crime 
problem or you name it. The one place where their laboratory of 
democracy probably fell down is that its human affairs are not like 
science, and very often, even though things are working well, they're 
not adapted, adopted, embraced as they should be.
    So I think that all of you who are struggling and working to find 
ways to mobilize the energies not only of your communities but willing, 
then, to see it spread across the country are doing the most important 
thing you could be doing because it's the second half of what

[[Page 439]]

the framers of the Constitution knew we'd have to do in order to meet 
all the challenges of the future. I mean, they couldn't have imagined 
the world that we live in now, but they set up a system that requires 
the second half--and you are that.
    I thank you for being here. I'm anxious to go forward, and I'd like 
to begin by having, I think, about four opening statements, beginning 
with Joe Califano. And I want to begin by just thanking you, sir, for 
the work that you have done at your center and the work that you have 
done for so many years now to try to help people deal with all kinds of 
substance abuse problems. And we'd be glad to hear from you.

[Joseph Califano, director, Center for Alcohol and Substance Abuse, 
thanked the President, commended the White House Conference, broadly 
linked cigarette smoking with drug abuse, and commended the President's 
effort to prevent cigarette smoking among youth.]

    The President. Reverend Jackson?

[Civil rights leader Jessie Jackson thanked the President for his years 
of interest in the subject and then surveyed the students asking how 
many students knew people in their age group who had died or been jailed 
because of drugs, who knew fellow students who brought guns to school, 
and asked how many students had told school officials. He said that the 
lack of response to the last question demonstrated silent complicity 
with the drug and violence culture and added that the effort to win the 
war on drugs must be initiated as a struggle by youth. He linked the 
media and poverty to the drug and violence culture and added that the 
national response was to lock them up rather than to lift them up. He 
advocated targeting the base of the drug culture, like the enemy base in 
a war. He advocated a parents' coalition of 20,000 in 50 cities to get 
more deeply involved in their children's education, working with 
teachers to improve children's lives, as well as 100 ministers working 
with juvenile court judges to reclaim youth rather than jail them. He 
concluded by urging the young to rise up and be the warriors and leaders 
in the struggle.]

    The President. Let me just say, yesterday Reverend Jackson and I 
spent a few minutes together in preparation for this day. And he went 
through what he was going to say. And the thing I want to say, quite 
apart from the incredible power of his remarks, is that he has given us 
a way to take what is working and to spread it across the country. And 
we now have to see if we're willing to do that.
    Can you find 20,000 parents in 50 cities? Can you find this number 
of churches in 50 cities? Can we prove that we can take these--if you 
want to prove that you--we know objectively we can't jail our way out of 
the crisis, but we have never presented, frankly, a constructive 
alternative that we could spread across the country. You can build a 
jail in one city and another, and it looks about the same. This program 
or that program or the other program may not look the same in every 
community.
    So the great--the enduring genius of what he has said today may well 
be his plan that would allow us to systematically make a difference 
across the country and offer us an alternative approach to this in the 
future. And I thank you, sir.
    Jim--Mr. Burke.

[James Burke, chairman, Partnership for a Drug-Free America, said there 
was not a single social issue in this country in which illegal drugs was 
not embedded. He then cited the progress made in recent years against 
drug use which he attributed to changing attitudes towards drugs. He 
said that the media had made a major contribution to changing the 
Nation's attitude toward drugs after Len Bias died. He advocated 
listening to the children and getting them involved in the solution.]

    The President. I would like to now call on a remarkable person who 
has probably laid a costlier sacrifice on the altar of our modern 
troubles than almost any other American, and who has responded by 
devoting her life to trying to help us work our way out of it, Dr. 
Lonise Bias. Thank you for being here.

[Lonise Bias, mother of Len Bias who died a drug-related death in June 
1986 and Jay Bias who was murdered in December 1994, advocated four 
essentials to resolve the program: unconditional love; community (come 
unity); faith in Jesus; and a commitment to character over image. She 
said that many

[[Page 440]]

problems with our young people stems directly from the flow of 
information and that we must monitor the source of the information 
reaching our children. She said that when she started addressing young 
people, she spoke largely to the issues of drugs and self-esteem but 
that new issues constantly advance, such as violence, moral values, HIV/
AIDS, and respect for authority and advocated changing our approach to 
adapt to the changing needs of young people.]

    The President.  We have a number of distinguished people on this 
panel, and I'd like to--I think it's time we began with the young people 
and hear from them. So I will just call on them and then I want to call 
on some of the other panelists who are here who have done so many 
important things. But let me begin by asking Karen Lee, who is a senior 
here at Eleanor Roosevelt, who joined Students Against Violence a year 
ago, immediately after her classmate, Julie Ferguson, was abducted 
across from the school and killed. I'd like to ask her what has been 
happening here, what happened in the antiviolence program and where it's 
going, and what impact it's had on the students in the schools.

[Ms. Lee said that after the death of classmates, students and faculty 
were scared, angry, and hurt, but decided to join together and fight 
against the violence. The group believed that violence is often the 
result of the lack of alternatives, and they tried to provide some of 
those alternatives, such as peer mediation, peer counseling and 
mentoring programs. The groups also worked to raise community awareness 
to the presence of violence and held memorials, candlelight vigils, and 
just simple gatherings to remind them of the past and give hope for the 
future.]

    The President.  How many students here at the school are involved in 
it?

[Ms. Lee said that Students Against Violence had approximately 20 very 
active members.]

    The President.  Thank you. I want to come back to that in a moment 
with some of our other panelists, but I'd like to go now to Izaak Prado, 
who is a junior at a community school in Visalia, California. A former 
drug user, a former gang member who is in the second phase of the Tulare 
County Juvenile Drug Court in Visalia, he's returned to school; he says 
his attitude and his outlook have changed and that in his program 
associated with the drug court he attends mandatory drug counseling, 
sets goals, and learns from the experience of older men about how to 
handle peer pressure and stay away from drugs.
    There are a lot of people talking here today; you've actually had to 
walk the walk. And I thank you just for having the courage to sit up 
here on this panel. I would like to ask you to make whatever statement 
you would like to make about your experience and what you would say to 
other young people and what you think you could do to make a difference 
there.
    Mr. Prado. Well, I'm here because I got in trouble. I got in trouble 
for possession.
    The President. I just want to make sure they can hear you. I think 
they turned the mike up. That's good.

[Izaak Prado described the program and how his attitude had changed 
toward drugs and gangs and said that the program should be expanded 
nationally.]

    The President. Could you tell the people who are here how you 
happened to be placed in the drug court when you were arrested, or 
whatever happened to you? How did you wind up going into the drug court?
    Mr. Prado. Well, I was arrested, and I was sent to see the judge. 
And since my case was in affiliation with drugs, they gave me an 
opportunity to come into the program.
    The President. You had the choice about whether to go into the drug 
program or be punished conventionally in the criminal justice system, 
right?
    Mr. Prado. Yes. And I chose to be part of the program. And it's not 
like you can just drop out of the program if you feel you can't complete 
it. You know, once you make it, it's a commitment, and you have to stay 
in it for approximately 9 months.
    The President. Let me say that a lot of people here in this audience 
will be familiar with the drug courts, but one of the first ones in the 
country was established in Miami. And I happened to have, just by family 
accident, the exposure to it many years ago because

[[Page 441]]

my brother-in-law was the public defender in the drug court. So I have 
sat for hours on end on two different occasions in the Miami drug court. 
And all the people there also have to voluntarily choose to be in the 
drug court's jurisdiction to choose the path of rehabilitation to avoid 
automatic jailing of people who just got into this.
    And one of the parts of our crime bill that we're still struggling 
to preserve funding for is a small stream of money to help people 
establish these drug courts around the country. And you're a pretty good 
walking advertisement for it, and I thank you for what you've done.
    I wonder if any of the other panelists would like to ask Izaak a 
question before I go on to anyone else. Anyone have a question you want 
to ask him?
    Well, I thank you. You hang in there.

[Reverend Jackson asked Mr. Prado if he was afraid that after he leaves 
the program he will return to drug use. Mr. Prado said that when he 
started he thought he would but that the program had changed his 
attitude.]

    The President. You heard Dr. Bias say it's what happens in your mind 
that's the most important thing. So, you hang in there. We're for you.
    I'd like to ask Margaret Alstaetter, who's here to my left, a 
freshman at Wilmington College in Ohio, and she's the Students Against 
Drinking and Driving Student of the Year. To raise awareness of alcohol-
related issues, she coordinated a mock accident, planned public service 
announcements, organized Red Ribbon Week activities, and conducted a lot 
of other projects involving local elementary schools and young people.
    And so I'd like to ask her to say whatever is on her mind and ask 
her whether she thinks the SADD movement has helped to change the 
attitude of students about what is or is not the cool thing to do, or is 
or is not an acceptable thing to do, and whether or not it--whether 
having a chapter like this at every college and at every high school in 
the country would make a difference in the culture, to go back to what 
Mr. Burke said about our ability to change people's views of this. But 
talk a little about your own experience and tell us what you think.

[Ms. Alstaetter discussed SADD's main program, the Contract for Life, 
and described its main components of empowerment, caring, and 
prevention. She said that SADD is not a set program but something that 
each chapter designs for itself, her chapter working closely with drug-
free programs in elementary schools. She described Red Ribbon Week in 
which high school students develop entertainment with anti-drug themes 
and present them to elementary school students, and described several 
special days with anti-drug themes.]

    The President. Thank you very much. Let me ask you this: How many 
people are in your organization?
    Student. In my high school, we have about 70 active members.
    The President. That's good.
    Barry McCaffrey. Let me, if I may, intervene. We're scheduled to 
terminate at 1:15 p.m., but, Mr. President, knowing how valuable your 
time is, nonetheless you did make me your Drug Czar. So could we go 
beyond this to 1:30 p.m., do you think, to get some of the power of 
these comments out on the table?
    The President. He's only been out of uniform for a few days, and 
he's already off schedule. [Laughter]
    I would like to stay very much until at least 1:30 p.m., until we 
hear from everybody. Thank you very much, General.
    Let me say, I think--I wanted you to hear from these three students. 
Now, I'd like to come back and sort of pick up the issues, starting 
with--Karen talked about school violence and I would like to call on a 
couple of people now to discuss how they have dealt with it.
    Carl Cohn is the superintendent of the Long Beach Unified School 
District in California. It's the third largest school district in 
California; there are 81,000 students in this school district. And 2 
weeks ago, I went to his school district to one of the schools there, 
named for the great American baseball player, Jackie Robinson. And he 
was, as far as I know, the first major school district in the country to 
implement for elementary and junior high school students a school 
uniform policy.

[[Page 442]]

    I went out there because we had worked, particularly through the 
Attorney General's office and through the Department of Education, 
through Secretary Riley, to make sure that the school district and that 
others who wish to do the same thing could do so legally, explain how it 
could best be done, and then put together a handbook which you could 
then mail to every school district in the country explaining how Long 
Beach had done what they've done and how a school district who was 
interested in this could do it.
    And when I first heard about it and, indeed, when I mentioned it in 
the State of the Union Address, my last State of the Union Address, I 
always try to keep up with the reaction--on balance, it was the most 
positive reaction I ever got, except for all of the nasty letters I got 
from kids saying, ``How dare you suggest that school uniforms would be a 
good thing. It would be the most boring, awful thing that ever happened, 
our liberties would be trampled,'' and in one fell swoop, one remark, I 
turned myself into an old fogey before the entire country. But I must 
say, having gone out there, since the State of the Union, I think that 
at least every American needs to hear about the Long Beach experience, 
particularly in light of what Karen said and others have said.
    So, Carl, the floor is yours.

[Mr. Cohn said that since introducing the uniforms, there had been a 
dramatic reduction in school crime at the elementary and middle school 
level.]

    The President. Let me just inject a couple of facts here, in case 
any of you are thinking about this. First of all, there was not a 
uniform school district policy. He allowed every school, by some process 
or another, to choose their uniforms. And they were basically just 
comfortable school clothes, like I saw one of the young people was in 
a--the uniform for the boys was blue slacks and a white shirt with a 
collar every day. It wasn't--and there was some variation within that. 
And then the uniform for the girls was the same thing or a skirt.
    And each school got to choose their own colors and got to decide 
what the parameters of the uniform were. If the school chose, the 
teachers and the principal also wore the uniform, but that varied by 
school. But the young man that he mentioned, for example, said his 
school was located in a high crime area where the gangs associated gang 
membership with the colors red and blue, so the school chose black, 
white, and green for the school uniform. And to see this young 
attractive African-American student saying, ``I don't have to look over 
my shoulder anymore when I walk to and from school, I feel safe,'' 
that's worth something.
    The other student who spoke was a young--I think a 13 year old 
student, who is a terrifically powerful young woman who said that she 
felt one of the reasons that the learning had gone up and discipline and 
behavior problems had gone down is that it gave all the children a sense 
of unity and that all of them were being judged based on what was on the 
inside, rather than on the outside. It's interesting. And in that sense, 
she said she thought the children who came from well-to-do families were 
helped as much by the policy as children who came from poor families. 
And they also had to set up a system so kids who came from families who 
couldn't afford it and all that, and they covered all that.
    But if you have any interest in this I would urge you to write to 
Carl because it's hard to quarrel with the results and what the kids 
said. Maybe it's not the thing for every school district and every 
school, but they had a lot of problems and to see them drop in a 
breathtaking fashion I think is a real tribute to the courage and vision 
of the people of that school district. And I thank you for what you did.

[Reverend Jackson said that the program worked in both wealthy schools, 
where the students focus on lap tops rather than boom boxes, and not-so-
wealthy schools, where poor students don't have to try to keep up. He 
suggested that the program should go one step further and require that 
the students sew their own clothes.]

    The President. Before you laugh too much about the last comment 
Reverend Jackson made, let me remind you that the most famous cloth 
spinner of the 20th century was Mohandas Gandhi. That was his main non-
work activity.

[[Page 443]]

    So I'd like to call on Yvonne Green who is the director of the safe 
schools initiative in and around East Capitol and Marshall Heights in 
Washington, DC. She has a very challenging job. And she is helping to 
establish the kind of school and community partnerships that the rest of 
us so often talk about. So I'd like to ask her whether the Safe and 
Drug-Free School funds out of the crime bill have helped her and what 
she's done with it and what she thinks it's making a difference.

[Ms. Green, director, Safe and Drug-Free Schools, briefly described her 
program to make the communities safer and more education-friendly. She 
said one of the current initiatives was setting up a community mediation 
team and described mediation training in the community. She described 
funding of the program through the drug-free schools program and 
suggested that when there are school-community partnerships, that 
somehow the funding be made available to both groups, making both groups 
responsible and accountable for the funds and the outcome.]

    The President. Thank you very much. That's a very good idea.
    Now, if you will remember, Izaak said that he was involved in the 
drug court system in his hometown of Visalia, California. I'd like to 
call now on Judge Jeff Tauber, who is here, who initiated the design 
implementation of the Oakland drug court program, which was one of the 
Nation's first. He's now president of the National Association of Drug 
Court Professionals, and he advises Federal, State, and local agencies 
about how to establish these drug courts.
    So I'd like for him to talk about this. In view of--you heard the 
statistics Reverend Jackson mentioned. We know more than half of the 
individuals that come into the criminal justice system in the country 
have some sort of a substance abuse problem. And I'd like for him to 
tell me what he thinks the results are from the drug courts that have 
been established enough--in time for us to evaluate them and what he 
believes the future of the drug courts movement is.

[Judge Tauber briefly described the drug courts program and their 
community base, indicating that research shows that the program 
dramatically reduces recidivism by 40 to 60 percent. He described how 
the drug courts have successfully collaborated with other organizations 
and other agencies in the communities.]

    The President. I want to open the floor if anybody has questions of 
Judge Tauber. But I want to emphasize to all of you--remember Izaak's 
story. Not only are these courts reducing the recidivism rates, these 
people are not going to prison in the first place--they are not going to 
prison in the first place. And as far as I--the only courts that I've 
any experience with, the option to go through the regular system or to 
go into the drug court, since the drug court imposes certain 
responsibilities on the defendant going in, is left with the person who 
is charged, as it was in Izaak's case.
    But I think the question of what the aggregate impact on this 
country would be if every community of any size had a court like this--
which requires a community support system because you've got to show up 
on a regular basis and all that--is quite significant. And the one I 
watched in Miami for long periods of time on two separate occasions, the 
whole atmosphere was different, the chemistry of the court was 
different, the way that the defense lawyer and the prosecutor and the 
judge related to each other was different, because they knew what they 
were trying to do was to save the defendant and in the process get the 
law observed and make the community safer.
    It's a very exciting thing. I would like to see it done everywhere. 
And I think what you're doing is very important.
    Would anyone like to ask any questions of Jeff before we go on?
    Judge Tauber. I would like to add one thing if I may. I just wanted 
to thank you and this administration for its support of drug court and 
the Attorney General and the Department of Justice, because I think that 
we had the opportunity to grow and to grow in a very, I think, a very 
thoughtful and responsible way because of that support.
    The President. Thank you.
    Judge Tauber. Thank you.
    The President. Now, if you remember, our third young person, 
Margaret, talked about the Students Against Drunk Driving

[[Page 444]]

and what they were trying to do to keep our young people sober and drug 
free. I'd like to now call on Kurt Landgraf, who is the president and 
CEO of DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Company, who is now the 
representative of the National Pharmaceutical Council here. And he will 
discuss the $33 million program I announced in my speech.
    I say this because we know that the students need help and support 
at home. We also know, whether you believe--you know, there's this 
endless debate that started that basically was the study of people who 
had an alcohol addiction, about whether it's all a matter of weak will 
and bad habits or whether some people are biologically predisposed to it 
have problems. We know that whether you believe it's totally determined 
or not, there are all kind of differences both in the home situation and 
in people's makeup that makes it more important than ever that we get 
the parents involved early, making good decisions and understanding what 
to do.
    So I'm excited about this and I'd like to ask Kurt just to talk a 
little bit about this program, why the pharmaceutical companies decided 
to do it and how they expect it to work.

[Mr. Landgraf described the National Pharmaceutical Council initiative, 
using 17,000 sales reps from 15 companies in the pharmaceutical industry 
to provide information developed by the Office of Drug Control Policy to 
health care professionals to identify and help parents to identify 
persons at risk in terms of drug abuse. On a more personal note, he 
indicated that the drug industry was involved for three reasons: Once 
you become aware of the problem, it is essential for business to 
participate in the solution; the industry has the resources to 
effectively implement the program; and finally, if no action was taken, 
it would effect the children, including his children, and nothing was 
more important than the children.]

    The President. Thank you. I want to say a special word of thanks to 
you, sir, not only to you, individually, but to the people in your 
business. You know the United States has the most successful 
pharmaceutical industry in the world. And it depends, in part, for its 
success on a decent partnership with the Federal Government, especially 
through the Food and Drug Administration.
    And the statement you have just made is the statement that I think 
is very important, that in many respects the collective influence of 
American business practices is far greater on the American people than 
the influence of the Government is, and that's as it should be in many 
respects because we have a free enterprise system, we believe in a 
private economy and it has served us rather well.
    But the statement you just made is a very important statement--that 
even in a global economy, when you have to worry about the worldwide 
competition, the home base still matters. And in the end business has to 
be able to do well by doing good, because America must be strong for the 
private economy to flourish. And that's a very important statement, and 
I thank you for it.
    I have intentionally saved for last among our panelists--and I want 
to give the Governor a chance to say a word as we close--but the sheriff 
of Jacksonville, Florida, Nat Glover, because he is one of the most 
unusual success stories in our country. He was elected sheriff in a 
community in which is a majority white community, and which is also a 
majority of the other political party. [Laughter] And he was elected 
sheriff because people of all races and both political parties and all 
backgrounds trusted him to take the lead in lowering the crime rate and 
making the streets safer. It wasn't a political issue, at all; it was a 
human issue.
    And he was elected by promising, in effect, to have his office on 
the street. And I had the extraordinary opportunity to spend a day with 
him, not just at a rally of young people giving a talk, which I got to 
do, but actually walking the streets and watching him relate to people, 
the young and old alike, and seeing how they looked at him as the source 
of energy for delivering them from their own fears. And it was an 
extraordinary thing.
    So I wanted him to talk about what he's done in relating to the 
community and what the successes have been and to just thank him 
publicly for being a role model for law enforcement around the country. 
But I'd like to ask him to say a few words and maybe

[[Page 445]]

reflect on what he's heard here today and what he's trying to do in 
Jacksonville.
    Sheriff Glover.

[Mr. Glover thanked the President for the conference and stated that his 
community-oriented policing strategy was working. He described the 
transition of a low-income community after putting 31 officers in the 
community.]

    The President. Thank you.
    Governor.

[Gov. Parris Glendening thanked the President and described how violence 
touches individuals in the community. He indicated that he had talked 
with a pastor in a Montgomery County church where there had been 68 
funerals for the church, 25 percent from gun violence, and described how 
his wife's was robbed 5 years earlier. He said that while community 
efforts were important, personal responsibility was key.]

    The President. Thank you very much. As we--yes, Jesse? [Laughter]

[Reverend Jackson said that he believed this could be a turning point in 
the war on drugs, and he supported the community policing initiative but 
he noted that police corruption must be held in check, allowing police 
to become the true leaders at the grassroots. He then asked that 
students who will be 18 years old by November and who are registered to 
vote.]

    The President. That's pretty good.

[Reverend Jackson then asked that students who will be 18 years old by 
November and who are not registered to stand. He encouraged all those 
students to register and vote in November for a better future.]

    The President. I would like to thank Eleanor Roosevelt again for 
hosting us and thank all of the others who made this possible. I want to 
thank the panelists. I hope all of you who came to this conference got 
something out of their moving statements, their personal experiences, 
and perhaps some ideas you can take home. I want to assure you that the 
Vice President and General McCaffrey and I and the other members of our 
Cabinet will read the reports of all the various sessions of this 
conference.
    I have only two regrets as I leave here. One is that we couldn't 
spend all day hearing from all the young people who are here. And the 
other is that we couldn't spend all day listening to all the people who 
are here from the conference who could have just as well been on this 
panel.
    I want to thank you for the life you're leading, the work you're 
doing. Many of you out there in this audience I've had some personal 
involvement with, and I feel personally indebted to you--you know who 
you are--and I thank you for that.
    This is our country's great challenge. And if you look at these fine 
young people that were here, the rest of us owe it to them to meet it. 
And I feel more optimistic than I did before I came here today that 
we'll do exactly that.
    Thank you, and God bless you all.

Note: The President spoke at 12:18 p.m. in the auditorium at Eleanor 
Roosevelt High School.