Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 18 (Monday, May 8, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 18 (Monday, May 8, 1995)]
[Pages 751-752]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Presenting the 1994 Commander in Chief Trophy to the U.S. Air 
Force Academy Football Team

May 1, 1995

    Please be seated. I'm delighted to see all of you here: Senator 
Burns; Secretary Widnall; to our distinguished military leaders who are 
here, General Shalikashvili, General Fogelman, General Stein; members of 
the Board of Visitors of the Air Force Academy; Coach DeBerry, and the 
seniors of the Falcons football team. I want to congratulate the Air 
Force Academy on winning the Commander in Chief trophy now for the 6th 
year in a row.
    When I presented the Air Force Academy the Commander in Chief trophy 
2 years ago, I had just become President, and I didn't understand that 
the idea of a traveling trophy meant that it was supposed to go back and 
forth between Colorado and Washington--[laughter]--once a year. I now 
understand what this traveling trophy is, and I think I will be far more 
comfortable in doing my duty today.
    I was impressed with the Air Force Academy's ferocious defense. We 
could use some of your coaching up here from time to time, Coach. 
Sacking the opposing quarterback a record 48 times; two straight games 
holding your opponents to minus four yards rushing; and after years of a 
wishbone offense, which I have followed closely, you pass more--over 
1,500 yards this year. I think it's more appropriate for the Air Force 
Academy to have a big air attack. [Laughter]
    More importantly, you've won this trophy 6 years in a row, and you 
won this year because the young men who play football have embraced the 
lessons that Coach DeBerry has taught. The values of discipline, 
teamwork, and faith produce success not only on the field, but also in 
the Air Force and in life.
    I look forward to seeing all of you again on May 31st, when I will 
have the honor of

[[Page 752]]

speaking at your commencement. And I am very proud that in 30 days all 
the young men behind me will be commissioned as second lieutenants in 
the United States Air Force.
    Having said that, I am very pleased now to present the Commander in 
Chief trophy to Coach DeBerry and the Air Force Academy Falcons, and to 
invite the coach up here to make whatever remarks he'd like to make.
    Congratulations.

Note: The President spoke at 6:44 p.m. in the Roosevelt Room at the 
White House. In his remarks, he referred to Lt. Gen. Paul Stein, USAF, 
Superintendent, U.S. Air Force Academy, and Fisher DeBerry, coach of the 
U.S. Air Force Academy Falcons.