Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 17 (Monday, May 1, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 17 (Monday, May 1, 1995)]
[Page 707]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Jordan-United States Extradition 
Treaty

April 24, 1995

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Extradition Treaty between the 
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed at Washington on March 28, 1995. 
Also transmitted for the information of the Senate is the report of the 
Department of State with respect to this Treaty.
    The Treaty establishes the conditions and procedures for extradition 
between the United States and Jordan. It also provides a legal basis for 
temporarily surrendering prisoners to stand trial for crimes against the 
laws of the Requesting State.
    The Treaty further represents an important step in combatting 
terrorism by excluding from the scope of the political offense exception 
serious offenses typically committed by terrorists, e.g., crimes against 
a Head of State or first family member of either Party, aircraft 
hijacking, aircraft sabotage, crimes against internationally protected 
persons, including diplomats, hostage-taking, narcotics trafficking, and 
other offenses for which the United States and Jordan have an obligation 
to extradite or submit to prosecution by reason of a multilateral 
international agreement or treaty.
    The provisions in this Treaty follow generally the form and content 
of extradition treaties recently concluded by the United States.
    This Treaty will make a significant contribution to international 
cooperation in law enforcement. I recommend that the Senate give early 
and favorable consideration to the Treaty and give its advice and 
consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
April 24, 1995.