Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 45 (Monday, November 13, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 45 (Monday, November 13, 1995)]
[Page 1987]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6848--Death of Yitzhak Rabin

November 4, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Today a senseless act of violence has robbed the United States of a 
close friend and robbed the world of a statesman and courageous champion 
of peace.
    Yitzhak Rabin was a brave man who defended his country for half a 
century and whose vision and tenacity brought the world closer to peace.
    He was a man of hope, a man of wisdom, a man who sought to improve 
the lives of all those he touched.
    The peace process that he began will be his legacy. The people of 
the United States and the peace-loving people of the world are 
determined that the peace process will go forward.
    As a mark of respect for the memory of Yitzhak Rabin and America's 
support for peace in the Middle East, I hereby order that the flag of 
the United States shall be flown at half-staff upon all public buildings 
and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval 
vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and 
throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions until 
his interment. I also direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff 
for the same length of time at all United States Embassies, legations, 
consular offices, and other facilities abroad, including all military 
facilities and naval vessels and stations.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of 
November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:26 a.m., November 6, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 7.