Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 41 (Monday, October 16, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 41 (Monday, October 16, 1995)]
[Page 1790]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6837--Leif Erikson Day, 1995

October 6, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Every October, we celebrate Leif Erikson Day and honor the memory of 
that great Norse explorer who first set foot on North American soil 
nearly a millennium ago. At a time when mankind has traveled from pole 
to pole and even journeyed into the vast reaches of space, Leif 
Erikson's bold determination stands as an early example of the spirit of 
adventure and enterprise.
    This day is an occasion to celebrate the bonds of friendship that 
link the United States to the Nordic countries. For generations, Iceland 
and her neighbors have acted as bridges between Europe and North 
America, playing a vital role in fostering democracy and free trade 
throughout the world. Nordic peoples have long shared America's love of 
liberty and have always reached out to those who struggle against 
oppression. Today, we in the United States are proud to work with our 
Northern friends to fully reintegrate the Baltic states of Estonia, 
Latvia, and Lithuania into the Western family of nations. Together we 
look forward to a new Europe, united by a common respect for liberty and 
equality.
    We should also mark this observance by recognizing the outstanding 
contributions that citizens of Danish, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, 
and Swedish descent have made to our country. Just as their ancestors 
did before them, Nordic Americans cherish their ties across the ocean 
and bring their many gifts to America's culture, progress, and 
prosperity. As we remember Leif Erikson, whose voyage preceded so many 
rugged immigrants who braved the North Atlantic in search of economic, 
political, and religious liberties, let us pay tribute to his courage 
and renew our commitment to freedom.
    In honor of Leif Erikson--son of Iceland, grandson of Norway--the 
Congress, by joint resolution approved on September 2, 1964 (Public Law 
88-566), has authorized and requested the President to designate October 
9 of each year as ``Leif Erikson Day.''
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 1995, as Leif Erikson 
Day. I encourage the people of the United States to observe this 
occasion with appropriate ceremonies and activities commemorating our 
rich Nordic American heritage.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:59 p.m., October 10, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
12. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.