Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 40 (Monday, October 9, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 40 (Monday, October 9, 1995)]
[Pages 1761-1762]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1996

October 3, 1995

    Today I have signed into law H.R. 1817, the ``Military Construction 
Appropriations Act, FY 1996,'' which provides funding for military 
construction and family housing programs of the Department of Defense.
    I am pleased that the Act provides my full request for the vast 
majority of military construction projects, the military family housing 
program, other quality of life facilities for our military personnel and 
their families, and the Defense Department base closure and realignment 
program. Especially noteworthy, the bill funds my request for the 
Defense Department Family Housing Improvement Fund, which will give the 
Department a new vehicle for acquiring and improving military housing 
and supporting facilities more quickly and at lower cost than with 
conventional funding and acquisition methods.
    Although I am disappointed that the Act provides more funding than 
requested, most of the unrequested appropriations are for legitimate 
defense requirements. Funding was provided in FY 1996 rather than in 
future years.
    I am concerned, however, that Congress has chosen to spend $70 
million on unneeded projects. The Defense Department has not identified 
these projects as priorities, and they will not help improve the quality 
of life for our service members. These projects are clear examples of 
why the President needs line-item veto authority. The taxpayers deserve 
protection from this kind of wasteful spending, and if I had the line-
item veto, I

[[Page 1762]]

would use it to strike this $70 million. Unfortunately, Congress still 
has not completed action on legislation to provide the President with 
line-item veto authority. The American people have waited long enough. I 
strongly urge the Congress to complete action on line-item veto 
legislation now so I can eliminate wasteful spending this year.
    The American people sent us here to change the way Washington does 
business. Passing the line-item veto would be a good place for this 
Congress to start.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
October 3, 1995.

Note: H.R. 1817, approved October 3, was assigned Public Law No. 104-32.