Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 31 (Monday, August 7, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 31 (Monday, August 7, 1995)]
[Pages 1377-1378]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescissions Legislation

August 4, 1995

    On July 27, 1995, I approved H.R. 1944, the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations for Additional Disaster Assistance, for Anti-terrorism 
Initiatives, for Assistance in the Recovery from the Tragedy that 
Occurred at Oklahoma City, and Rescissions Act, 1995. This legislation 
shows how we can work together to produce good legislation.
    From the start of this rescission process, I agreed with the 
Congress on the need to cut spending. The question was, how should we do 
it?
    I vetoed the original rescission bill because it would have cut 
spending the wrong way, by targeting education and training, 
environmental protection, and other key national priorities. I then 
worked with Republicans and Democrats alike to produce a better bill. I 
am pleased that this bill cuts nearly $16 billion in spending while 
protecting our key investments in education and training, the 
environment, and other priorities.
    Like the earlier version, this bill also provides much-needed 
supplemental funds that I have sought for disaster relief activities of 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Federal response to the 
bombing in Oklahoma City, increased anti-terrorism efforts, and debt 
relief to Jordan to facilitate progress toward a Middle East peace 
settlement.
    To be sure, I do not support every provision of this bill. For 
instance, I still do not believe that this bill should contain any of 
the provisions relating to timber. But the final bill does contain 
changes in the language that preserve our ability to implement the 
current forest plans and their standards, and protect other resources 
such as clean water and fisheries. In addition, I am pleased that the 
Congress amended the bill to limit its special authorities for timber 
sales to end on December 31, 1996. Therefore, I have directed the 
Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, the Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency, and other Federal agencies to carry 
out timber salvage

[[Page 1378]]

activities consistent with our forest plans and existing environmental 
laws.
    In addition, though this bill includes a rescission of summer youth 
jobs funding for the summer of 1996, the Administration continues to 
support the program and will work with the Congress in the FY 1996 
appropriations process to ensure that the program for the summer of 1996 
is funded.
    I have designated as an emergency all funds in this Act so 
designated by the Congress that I had not previously designated pursuant 
to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    I am pleased that bipartisan leaders of Congress worked with me to 
produce a good bill. Working together, we can continue to produce good 
legislation for the American people.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
August 4, 1995.

Note: H.R. 1944, approved July 27, was assigned Public Law No. 104-19.