Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 41 (Monday, October 16, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 41 (Monday, October 16, 1995)]
[Pages 1805-1806]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Bolivia-United States Extradition 
Treaty

October 10, 1995

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Extradition Treaty Between the 
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Republic of Bolivia, signed at La Paz on June 27, 1995.
    I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of 
the Department of State with respect to the Treaty, and copies of 
diplomatic notes dated June 27, 1995, which were exchanged at the time 
of signing of the Treaty. Those notes set forth the expectations of the 
two Governments regarding the types of assistance each Government would 
provide to the other in extradition proceedings, pursuant to Article XVI 
of the Treaty.
    The Treaty establishes the conditions and procedures for extradition 
between the United States and Bolivia. It also provides a legal basis 
for temporarily surrendering prisoners to stand trial for crimes against 
the laws of the Requesting State.
    The Treaty represents an important step in combatting narcotics 
trafficking and terrorism, by providing for the mandatory extradition of 
nationals of the Requested State in a broad range of serious criminal 
offenses.
    The provisions in this Treaty are substantively similar to those of 
other extradition treaties recently concluded by the United States.

[[Page 1806]]

    This Treaty will make a significant contribution to international 
cooperation in law enforcement. I recommend that the Senate give early 
and favorable consideration to the Treaty and give its advice and 
consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
October 10, 1995.