Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 28 (Monday, July 17, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 28 (Monday, July 17, 1995)]
[Pages 1214-1215]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Honoring the 1995 National Hockey League Champion New Jersey 
Devils

July 10, 1995

    Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the White House. Governor Whitman, 
thank you for coming. Governor Byrne, good to see you back there. 
Congressman Menendez--I've been waiting for several Members of Congress 
who are trying to get here. I was trying to wait for them, but I think 
we should start when they come in--especially if Senator Bradley is the 
first one; we'll notice them all. And we'll be glad to acknowledge them. 
I thank those who--are they here? Senator Lautenberg, welcome. Senator 
Bradley, thank you.
    I welcome you all here to the White House and congratulate the New 
Jersey Devils' first Stanley Cup victory in their 13-year history. I 
identified with you because you were cast as classic underdogs. But your 
determination and teamwork paid off.
    It occurred to me as we were preparing for this that hockey is a lot 
like what goes on around here. [Laughter] You get behind; you get ahead; 
you never know you're going to win until the last minute. It's more 
often a contact sport than it ought to be. The difference is here we 
don't have a penalty box, and sometimes the referees back there pile on, 
too. [Laughter]
    But the most important thing is the teamwork. You know, the Stanley 
Cup is the oldest professional athletic trophy in North America; it's 
102 years old. I'm glad we have it in the White House today again in a 
place of honor. I noted that it hasn't always enjoyed a place of honor. 
The Stanley Cup was once forgotten on a roadside, and once it was 
actually kicked into a frozen canal.
    Coach Lemaire has accomplished quite a lot in his first 2 years, I 
would say. In the first year, the Devils had a record 106 points, 19 
more than in any previous year, and of course, this year you won the 
Stanley Cup. Martin Brodeur has had a busy 2 years after being a rookie 
of the year last year--I like this nickname--``The Kid'' continued to be 
an outstanding goalie this year.
    I also want to congratulate Claude Lemieux on his outstanding 
performance and on being named the Consummate Trophy winner. Let me 
congratulate all the players and thank those who have come here. Hockey 
is becoming an American sport: the teams now are more widely placed 
across the United States; more and more people understand it and watch 
it on television; and thanks to television, we are coming to understand 
it, those of us who live in places where there's never any ice. And I 
must say, I was very, very impressed and I really got into the Stanley 
Cup finals this year, so I'm delighted to have all of you here.
    I'd like to now ask the NHL Commissioner, Gary Bettman, to take the 
microphone and introduce the team, the players, and do whatever else he 
would like to do.

[[Page 1215]]

Note: The President spoke at 6:07 p.m. in the East Room at the White 
House. In his remarks, he referred to Gov. Christine T. Whitman and 
former Gov. Brendon Byrne of New Jersey.