Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 44 (Monday, November 6, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 44 (Monday, November 6, 1995)]
[Pages 1965-1966]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6846--National Adoption Month, 1995

November 1, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    For many people across the United States, adoption provides a means 
for building and strengthening families. It places children into loving, 
permanent homes where they can flourish and grow up to become happy, 
healthy, productive members of our national community. Adoption also 
enables adults to experience the unique joys of parenthood.
    As many as 70,000 children in America's foster care system may need 
adoptive families in the next few years--young people of all ages and 
backgrounds who, for whatever reason, cannot return to their original 
homes. Many, but not all, are children with special needs. These young 
people long for the same affection, security, and stability that most of 
us take for granted, yet too many have waited--and will continue to 
wait--for years to be adopted.
    My Administration has taken important actions to encourage adoption 
and to support the wonderful families that choose to open their hearts 
and homes to waiting children. The Multiethnic Placement Act, which I 
signed into law in October 1994, helps to facilitate adoption for all 
children and families,

[[Page 1966]]

regardless of their race or ethnic origin. We will continue to champion 
and improve programs that break down barriers to adoption through 
aggressive recruitment of families, financial aid to support placements, 
and technical assistance to agencies committed to special needs 
adoption.
    As we observe National Adoption Month, we celebrate these 
achievements and recognize the rewards of adoption, but we must also 
remember that much work remains to be done. Citizens from all 
communities and organizations from the public and private sectors must 
join together to renew our commitment to finding permanent homes for 
each one of America's children.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 
1995, as National Adoption Month. I urge the people of the United States 
to observe this month with appropriate activities and programs and to 
participate in efforts to find permanent homes for waiting children.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of 
November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:52 a.m., November 2, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 3.