Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 16 (Monday, April 24, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 16 (Monday, April 24, 1995)]
[Pages 671-672]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6788--Jewish Heritage Week, 1995

April 20, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Throughout history and through times of profound adversity, the 
Jewish people have built their lives on the strength of family and the 
spirit of community. Millions have made a home in America--a Nation 
filled with opportunity and blessed with the miracle of freedom. And 
here, with hard work and dedication, the Jewish-American community has 
flourished.
    Jewish citizens have made vital contributions to every sector of our 
society. From academia to the arts, from business to government, from 
the smallest towns to the largest

[[Page 672]]

cities, Jewish Americans have infused our Nation with a powerful faith, 
a commitment to family and community, and a devotion to scholarship and 
self-improvement.
     Judaism is a unique gift to this land that people of myriad faiths 
and cultures call home. The ancient commandment of tzedakah--charity--
challenges us to embrace the duty of service to others. The Talmudic 
teachings of mercy and justice, and those who have sought to uphold 
these ideals, grace the pages of American history. We can draw strength 
and inspiration from the enduring lessons of Judaism, and it is entirely 
fitting that we honor the great traditions of its followers.
     Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 30 
through May 7, 1995, as ``Jewish Heritage Week.'' I call upon the people 
of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, 
ceremonies, and activities.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day 
of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
nineteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:06 p.m., April 20, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on April 
24.