Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 18 (Monday, May 8, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 18 (Monday, May 8, 1995)]
[Pages 761-762]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6795--Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month, 1995

May 3, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Like so many people of this Nation, Americans of Asian and Pacific 
ancestry enjoy dual heritage--the great cultures of the lands of their 
forebearers and the rich traditions of liberty and equality cherished by 
the United States. Bringing new values and customs to these shores, 
Asian and Pacific Americans have immeasurably enriched the quality and 
character of this country. In every field of endeavor, in public and 
private sector alike,

[[Page 762]]

they have endowed our Nation with unparalleled energy and vision.
    We owe a debt of gratitude to these Americans, both for the gift of 
their talents and for helping us build bridges of understanding to their 
ancestral lands in the Pacific Community--bridges that help our 
economies to grow and that widen the path to peace.
    Today, our Nation stands at the dawn of a new era of hope and 
opportunity. We depend as never before on the active involvement of 
every one of our people to meet the challenges of our changing world. 
With the strength of our diversity and a continued commitment to the 
ideal of freedom, all Americans will share in the blessings of the 
bright future that awaits us.
    To honor the achievements of Asian/Pacific Americans and to 
recognize their many contributions to our Nation, the Congress, by 
Public Law 102-450, has designated the month of May as ``Asian/Pacific 
American Heritage Month.''
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1995, as Asian/Pacific 
American Heritage Month. I call upon the people of the United States to 
observe this occasion with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and 
activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of 
May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
nineteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:26 p.m., May 3, 1995]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 4, and it was published in the Federal Register on May 
5.