Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 17 (Monday, May 1, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 17 (Monday, May 1, 1995)]
[Pages 723-724]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Counter-Terrorism Initiatives and an Exchange With Reporters

April 26, 1995

    The President. I asked the leaders of Congress from both parties to 
come to the White House today because I know that we have a shared 
commitment to do everything we possibly can to stamp out the kind of 
vicious behavior we saw in Oklahoma City. Everyone here is determined to 
do that, and I want us to work together to get the job done.
    On Sunday, I announced the first series of steps we must take to 
combat terrorism in America. Today I'm announcing further measures, 
grounded in common sense and steeled with force. These measures will 
strengthen law enforcement and sharpen their ability to crack down on 
terrorists wherever they're from, be it at home or abroad. This will arm 
them with investigative tools, increased enforcement, and tougher 
penalties.
    I say, again: Justice in this case must be swift, certain, and 
severe. And for anyone who dares to sow terror on American land, justice 
must be swift, certain, and severe. We must move on with law enforcement 
measures quickly. We must move so that we can prevent this kind of thing 
from happening again. We cannot allow our entire country to be subjected 
to the horror that the people of Oklahoma City endured. We can prevent 
it and must do everything we can to prevent it. I know that we would do 
this together without regard to party, and I'm looking forward to this 
discussion of it.
    Q. Civil libertarians are worried there may be some ability by law 
enforcement agencies to abuse the power that you may be given.
    The President. I think we can strike the right balance. We've got to 
do more to protect the American people.

Note: The President spoke at 5:09 p.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White 
House. A tape was

[[Page 724]]

not available for verification of the content of these remarks.