Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 28 (Monday, July 17, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 28 (Monday, July 17, 1995)]
[Pages 1215-1216]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Latvia-United States Investment 
Treaty

July 10, 1995

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Treaty Between the Government of 
the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of 
Latvia Concerning the Encouragement and Reciprocal Protection of 
Investment, with Annex and Protocol, signed at Washington on January 13, 
1995. I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of 
the Department of State with respect to this Treaty.

[[Page 1216]]

    The bilateral investment Treaty (BIT) with Latvia will protect U.S. 
investors and assist Latvia in its efforts to develop its economy by 
creating conditions more favorable for U.S. private investment and thus 
strengthening the development of the private sector.
    The Treaty is fully consistent with U.S. policy toward international 
and domestic investment. A specific tenet of U.S. policy, reflected in 
this Treaty, is that U.S. investment abroad and foreign investment in 
the United States should receive national treatment. Under this Treaty, 
the Parties also agree to international law standards for expropriation 
and compensation for expropriation; free transfer of funds associated 
with investments; freedom of investments from performance requirements; 
fair, equitable, and most-favored-nation treatment; and the investor's 
or investment's freedom to choose to resolve disputes with the host 
government through international arbitration.
    I recommend that the Senate consider this Treaty as soon as 
possible, and give its advice and consent to ratification of the Treaty, 
with Annex and Protocol, at an early date.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
July 10, 1995.