Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 41 (Monday, October 16, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 41 (Monday, October 16, 1995)]
[Pages 1790-1791]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6835--National School Lunch Week, 1995

October 6, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    On June 4, 1946, President Truman signed the National School Lunch 
Act--landmark legislation designed to ensure the nutritional health of 
America's students. This year, nearly half a century later, the 
Department of Agriculture has updated Federal regulations to require 
school meals to meet the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The resulting 
School Meals Initiative for Healthy Children is the most significant 
reform of the meals program since President Truman's time, underscoring 
our Nation's profound responsibility to protect our children's well-
being.
    Recognizing that simply adopting policies does not always guarantee 
change, my Administration launched Team Nutrition on June 12, 1995, to 
unite public and private organizations in promoting healthful dietary 
habits through schools, community organizations, and the media. This 
groundbreaking measure also provides the training, technical

[[Page 1791]]

assistance, and nutrition education that are critical to the School 
Meals Initiative's successful implementation. This fall marks the 
introduction of the Team Nutrition Schools Program, which brings 
together teachers and principals, children and families, community 
leaders, and school food services professionals to work for healthier 
school meals and to make available better nutrition information.
    The National School Lunch program currently operates in more than 95 
percent of our Nation's public schools and serves some 25 million 
students daily. The only nutritious meal of the day for many children, a 
school lunch can help to lengthen attention span, increase learning 
capacity, and dramatically improve overall health. Thanks to dedicated 
educators, parents, Federal, State, and local officials, and 
particularly food service professionals, more than 92,000 schools and 
residential child care institutions across the country provide wholesome 
meals to our Nation's children, enabling them to look forward to a 
healthier future.
    In recognition of the contributions of the National School Lunch 
program to the nutritional well-being of our young people, the Congress, 
by joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (Public Law 87-780), has 
designated the week beginning the second Sunday in October of each year 
as ``National School Lunch Week'' and has requested the President to 
issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim October 8 through October 14, 
1995, as National School Lunch Week. I call upon all Americans to 
recognize those individuals whose efforts contribute to the success of 
our national meals programs, and I encourage people everywhere to 
reaffirm their commitment to safeguarding children's health.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:56 p.m., October 10, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on October 7, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
October 12.