Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 39 (Monday, October 2, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 39 (Monday, October 2, 1995)]
[Page 1692]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Prior to Departure From Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland

September 24, 1995

Middle East Peace Process

    The President. Good morning. Not long ago, Israel and the 
Palestinians announced that they have reached a full agreement on 
implementing the next phase of the Declaration of Principles. This is a 
big step on the road to a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. And 
on behalf of the American people, I want to congratulate the negotiators 
and their leaders who continue to work and persevere and to prevail over 
the enemies of peace, including some who are willing to use terror to 
try to derail the peace process.
    At the request of the parties, I have gladly agreed to host a 
signing ceremony at the White House on September the 28th. We will also 
be inviting other regional leaders and, obviously, other interested 
parties who have to be involved in this--entire venture a success. But 
this is a good day for peace in the Middle East and a good omen for good 
steps in the future.
    Q. What do you think the impact will be on the hope for a 
comprehensive Middle East peace between Israel and all of its Arab 
neighbors?
    The President. I don't think it can be anything but positive. But 
we've learned from experience to take these things one at a time and to 
hammer out step-by-step progress and not to read too much into it. But I 
feel quite good about this; this is a major step. And as you know from 
your own observations, they have worked very hard over some very 
contentious issues that were quite difficult and complex. And I've been 
encouraged by what I've heard this morning about the progress that's 
been made.
    Thank you.

Note: The President spoke at 9:52 a.m. A tape was not available for 
verification of the content of these remarks.