Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 43 (Monday, October 30, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 43 (Monday, October 30, 1995)]
[Pages 1932-1933]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6845--Veterans Day, 1995

October 24, 1995

By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

    During both war and peace, America's armed forces have helped to 
preserve the fundamental rights and liberties guaranteed by our 
Constitution. Every day, our men and women in uniform maintain an 
around-the-clock vigil to ensure that our Nation remains safe from harm 
and our citizens free from fear. Their sacrifices, and the dedication to 
duty exemplified by American troops throughout our history, have 
advanced democracy and human dignity around the world.
    For generations, brave citizens from every walk of life have 
answered the call to service, fighting to defend the ideals we hold 
dear. Through long years of separation and hardship, the selfless 
contributions made by our veterans have preserved the blessings of 
freedom. As we honor their heroism, let us also remember the families 
whose support and prayers have added so much. We owe a heartfelt thanks 
to all those whose devoted efforts--both on the battlefield and in 
communities across the country--have laid the strong foundation of peace 
and security we enjoy today.
    On this 50th anniversary of the end of World War II, we take special 
pride in recognizing those who served the United States during that 
terrible conflict--the 16,535,000 men and women who risked their lives 
to defeat oppression. The ensuing half-century has brought momentous 
changes in global affairs, and the generation of veterans who triumphed 
over tyranny continues to hold a sacred place in our national memory.
    Veterans of other wars throughout our Nation's history merit no less 
distinction. There are some 27 million veterans in America today whose 
service ranges from World War I, through the Cold War, to the Persian 
Gulf War and our other recent military missions around the globe. Thanks 
to their loyalty and courage, this country remains a symbol of hope for 
all those who seek democracy and

[[Page 1933]]

peace. On Veterans Day and on every day throughout the year, let us 
remember and honor the sacrifices of our veterans and renew our 
commitment to accounting for their comrades-in-arms who have fallen, 
unknown and unrecovered, in distant fields of battle.
    In order that we may pay tribute to those who have served in our 
Armed Forces, the Congress has provided (5 U.S.C. 6103(a)) that November 
11 of each year shall be set aside as a day to recognize America's 
veterans.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim Saturday, November 11, 1995, as 
Veterans Day. I urge all Americans to honor the resolution and 
commitment of our veterans through appropriate public ceremonies and 
private prayers. I call upon Federal, State, and local officials to 
display the flag of the United States and to encourage and participate 
in patriotic activities in their communities. I invite civic and 
fraternal organizations, places of worship, schools, businesses, unions, 
and the media to support this national observance with suitable 
commemorative expressions and programs.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth 
day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-
five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two 
hundred and twentieth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:29 a.m., October 25, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
26.