Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31 Issue 21 (Monday, May 29, 1995)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 31, Number 21 (Monday, May 29, 1995)]
[Pages 870-871]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6803--National Maritime Day, 1995

May 19, 1995

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    The United States owes much to our merchant sailors. At our Nation's 
beginning, these outstanding citizens opened new avenues of commerce and 
helped nurture a fledgling democracy into a beacon of freedom for people 
around the world. Since President Franklin D. Roosevelt first proclaimed 
National Maritime Day 62 years ago, the U.S. Merchant Marine has built 
on its legacy of patriotism. Its great tradition of courage and valor is 
an inspiration to all Americans.
    This year, as we honor those who served and sacrificed for our 
Nation during World War II, the contributions of the U.S. Merchant 
Marine are a special source of pride. We will always remember the 
heroism of those mariners and the dangers they faced to protect our 
liberty.
    America's Merchant Marine and civilian seafarers have put themselves 
at risk time and again to support our Armed Forces. They provided 
pivotal service during OPERATION DESERT STORM, during America's 
humanitarian mission in Somalia, and throughout OPERATION RESTORE 
DEMOCRACY in Haiti.
    Today, our country remains determined to maintain a strong U.S. flag 
presence on the high seas, a commitment central to advancing our 
Nation's national and economic security. I urge Americans to join 
efforts in support of maritime revitalization legislation and our 
ongoing shipbuilding production program. Americans' pioneering spirit 
has endowed our Nation with the most innovative maritime technologies 
and the most skilled innovative maritime technologies and the most 
skilled maritime labor force on Earth. Working together, we can preserve 
this critical advantage for generations to come.
    In recognition of the importance of the U.S. Merchant Marine, the 
Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has designated 
May 22 of each year as ``National Maritime Day'' and has authorized and 
requested the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its 
appropriate observance.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 22, 1995, as National Maritime 
Day. I urge the people of the United States to observe this day with 
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities and by displaying the 
flag of the United States at their homes and in their communities. I 
also request that all ships sailing under the American flag dress ship 
on that day.

[[Page 871]]

    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day 
of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
nineteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:24 a.m., May 22, 
1995]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 23. 
This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate 
issue.