Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39 Issue 44 (Monday, November 3, 2003)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39, Number 44 (Monday, November 3, 2003)]
[Page 1504]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7727--National Hospice Month, 2003

October 30, 2003

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Hospice care plays an important role in American medicine by easing 
a patient's suffering while reaffirming individual dignity in a 
familiar, comfortable environment. Across our Nation, hospice care 
providers are assisting in hospitals, nursing homes, and private 
residences, offering physical, emotional, and spiritual support to 
patients who often have a short life expectancy.
    Hospice teams consist of physicians, nurses, social workers, 
counselors, and volunteers who are experts in end-of-life issues. They 
offer pain management, therapy, nutrition, and other supportive care in 
the home or other comfortable surroundings, making it easier for 
patients, family members, and friends to spend time together in their 
loved one's final days. Hospice experts also offer grief counseling to 
friends and family members after their loss.
    Every stage of human life deserves to be treated with respect and 
care. I commend all those who work and volunteer as hospice care 
providers. Their contributions make our Nation a better place.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2003 as National 
Hospice Month. I encourage Americans to increase their awareness of 
hospice service and to observe this month with appropriate activities 
and programs.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day 
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand three, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 3, 
2003]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
November 4.