Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39 Issue 4 (Monday, January 27, 2003)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39, Number 4 (Monday, January 27, 2003)]
[Pages 103-104]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks at the Swearing-In Ceremony for Tom Ridge as Secretary of 
Homeland Security

January 24, 2003

    The President. Good afternoon. Thank you all for coming. Welcome to 
the White House, and welcome to this historic moment. As of today, the 
law creating the United States Department of Homeland Security comes 
into effect. And now this Department has its first Secretary, Thomas 
Joseph Ridge.
    Homeland Security becomes the 15th executive department of my 
Cabinet. It begins a vital mission in the defense of our country. We've 
learned that vast oceans no longer protect us from the dangers of a new 
era. This Government has a responsibility to confront the threat of 
terror wherever it is found.
    And that is why we're taking the battle to America's enemies, 
disrupting their networks; we're destroying their camps. We've got them 
on the run, and we're going to keep them on the run.
    And at home, we are taking every measure to protect the American 
people against a serious and ongoing threat. The Department of Homeland 
Security will lead a comprehensive and unified effort to defend this 
Nation. The Department will analyze threats, guard our borders and 
airports, safeguard critical infrastructure, and coordinate the response 
of our Nation to future emergencies.
    Under the leadership of Tom Ridge, more than 170,000 dedicated 
Americans, dedicated professionals, will have the overriding mission of 
protecting their fellow Americans.

[[Page 104]]

    In October of 2001, when I established the office--the White House 
Office of Homeland Security, I knew immediately that Tom was the right 
man for the assignment. He's a decisive, clear-thinking executive who 
knows how to solve problems. He's a person of integrity and a person of 
good judgment. At the White House, he has done an outstanding job, and 
he's earned the gratitude of the American people.
    This week he earned an unanimous vote of confirmation. And I want to 
thank the United States Senate for its swift action. This new Department 
will face many challenges in the year to come. The American people can 
be certain that the mission of homeland security will be carried out 
with focus and resolve, with the resources the task requires. And the 
American people can know as well that the Department is under the 
command of a superb leader who has my confidence.
    Congratulations, Tom, and thank you for serving our country.
    Secretary Ridge. Thank you, Mr. President.
    The President. Thank you all.

Note: The President spoke at 1:20 p.m. in the Cross Hall at the White 
House.