Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39 Issue 45 (Monday, November 10, 2003)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39, Number 45 (Monday, November 10, 2003)]
[Pages 1511-1512]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7729--National Diabetes Month, 2003

 October 31, 2003

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Almost 17 million Americans have diabetes, a disease that prevents 
the body from using its own insulin to break down sugars. It is the 
sixth leading cause of death in the United States. During National 
Diabetes Month, we recognize advancements in preventing, treating, and 
detecting this disease, and we renew our commitment to helping Americans 
with diabetes live longer, healthier lives.
    Diabetes can lead to severe complications, including heart disease, 
blindness, kidney failure, and lower-extremity amputations. Up to 1 
million Americans have type 1 diabetes, an autoimmune disorder that 
destroys insulin-producing cells in the pancreas, while an estimated 16 
million Americans have type 2 diabetes, in which the body does not 
sufficiently produce or process enough insulin. Type 2 diabetes is often 
related to obesity, and it is rising rapidly among men and women of all 
ages. Type 2 diabetes is also on the rise among children, for whom it 
was once extremely rare. Modest weight loss, increased exercise, and a 
healthy diet can decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes and help manage 
its complications.
    Through the HealthierUS Initiative, my Administration is helping 
Americans develop the healthier habits that can improve their quality of 
life. And the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the 
National Institutes of Health are working together through the National 
Diabetes Education Program to educate Americans at risk for diabetes and 
to instruct those living with the disease about controlling blood 
glucose, blood pressure, and cholesterol. By raising awareness in our 
communities and providing assistance to those battling the disease, we 
are fighting diabetes.
    My Administration also has demonstrated a strong commitment to 
medical research by completing a 5-year commitment to double the NIH 
budget to more than $27 billion. During fiscal year 2003, the NIH 
invested an estimated $860.5 million into diabetes research. We will 
continue to support NIH scientists and others working to treat and cure 
this disease.
    During National Diabetes Month, we commend those advancing the fight 
against diabetes as they bring hope and health to millions of Americans.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2003 as National 
Diabetes Month. I call upon all Americans to increase their awareness of 
the risk factors and symptoms related to diabetes and to observe this 
month with appropriate programs and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand three, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 4, 
2003]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 5. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.

[[Page 1512]]