Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39 Issue 36 (Monday, September 8, 2003)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39, Number 36 (Monday, September 8, 2003)]
[Pages 1136-1137]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7698--National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month, 
2003

 September 1, 2003

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Alcohol addiction and drug addiction continue to challenge our 
Nation. Addiction to alcohol or drugs destroys family ties, friendship, 
ambition, and moral conviction, and reduces the richness of life to a 
single destructive desire. During National Alcohol and Drug Addiction 
Recovery Month, we seek to remind all Americans, particularly those who 
struggle with alcohol or drug addiction, that recovery is possible. This 
year's theme, ``Join the Voices of Recovery: Celebrating Health,'' 
salutes the thousands of Americans currently striving to address their 
alcohol or drug addiction, and the many professionals, volunteers, 
clergy, community groups, friends, and family members who support others 
in overcoming addiction.
    For the addicted, the fight is an ongoing struggle for their own 
lives. The process of treatment and recovery is personal, and each 
individual's treatment needs are different. And as a result, treatment 
programs must address a wide range of physical, mental, emotional, and 
spiritual needs. When properly tailored, alcohol and drug addiction 
treatment can be very effective.
    Last year, approximately 100,000 individuals who sought treatment 
for alcohol and drug addiction were unable to receive the help they 
needed. To address this problem, I have proposed a new initiative, 
Access to Recovery, that will increase the availability and 
effectiveness of treatment programs. With $600 million, an additional 
300,000 Americans will gain access to needed treatment over the next 3 
years.
    Access to Recovery will build on existing alcohol and drug treatment 
services by offering greater choices to those seeking treatment. Our 
Nation is blessed with many recovery programs that do exceptional work,

[[Page 1137]]

and we must make these programs available to more people. By providing 
vouchers that enable those struggling with addiction to get help from a 
wide range of sources that work, including faith-based and community 
organizations, we will expand treatment options and accountability. This 
flexibility will strengthen our system and offer more hope to those in 
need.
    My Administration has taken important steps to cut off illegal drug 
supplies and reduce demand through anti-drug education. For those who 
become addicted to drugs or to alcohol, my Administration is committed 
to tearing down the stigma attached to recovery so that more people will 
seek the help they need. Alcohol addiction and drug addiction are 
diseases that touch all Americans--young and old, rich and poor, male 
and female. As a Nation, we must continue our efforts to offer the best 
possible opportunities, settings, and approaches to prevent and treat 
alcohol and drug addiction. By caring for those who need treatment, we 
are building a more welcoming and compassionate culture that values 
every life.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2003 as 
National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month. I call upon all the 
people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate 
programs, ceremonies, and activities.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of 
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand three, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 4, 
2003]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
September 5.