Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39 Issue 45 (Monday, November 10, 2003)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 39, Number 45 (Monday, November 10, 2003)]
[Page 1512]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7730--National Family Caregivers Month, 2003

 October 31, 2003

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Millions of Americans make extraordinary efforts every day to care 
for loved ones who are elderly, chronically ill, or disabled. These 
caregivers make many sacrifices to improve the lives of their loved 
ones. Through their love, dedication, and courage, these compassionate 
children, parents, spouses, grandparents, and extended family members 
strengthen and preserve the importance of family and reflect the true 
character of our Nation.
    My Administration is supporting family caregivers in their efforts 
to provide comfort and support to their loved ones. The National Family 
Caregiver Support Program, managed by the Administration on Aging of the 
Department of Health and Human Services, gives family caregivers 
counseling, information, respite care, and supplemental services.
    As we mark National Family Caregivers Month, we express our 
gratitude to family caregivers, and celebrate the great blessings they 
bring to their families and to our Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2003 as National 
Family Caregivers Month. I encourage all Americans to honor and support 
family members, friends, and neighbors who assume important caregiving 
responsibilities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand three, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 4, 
2003]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 5. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.