Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 30 (Monday, July 30, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 30 (Monday, July 30, 2007)]
[Pages 999-1000]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Congress on Continuation of the National Emergency With 
Respect to the Former Liberian Regime of Charles Taylor

July 19, 2007

 To the Congress of the United States:

    Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for

[[Page 1000]]

the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, prior to the 
anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the 
Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the 
emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In 
accordance with this provision, I have sent the enclosed notice to the 
Federal Register for publication, stating that the national emergency 
and related measures dealing with the former Liberian regime of Charles 
Taylor are to continue in effect beyond July 22, 2007.
    The actions and policies of former Liberian President Charles Taylor 
and other persons, in particular their unlawful depletion of Liberian 
resources, their trafficking of illegal arms, and their formation of 
irregular militia, continue to undermine Liberia's transition to 
democracy and the orderly development of its political, administrative, 
and economic institutions and resources. These actions and policies 
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign 
policy of the United States. For these reasons, I have determined that 
it is necessary to continue the national emergency with respect to the 
former Liberian regime of Charles Taylor.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 July 19, 2007.

Note: This message was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
July 20. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.