Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 5 (Monday, February 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 5 (Monday, February 5, 2007)]
[Pages 93-94]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following Breakfast With Small-Business Leaders in Peoria, 
Illinois

January 30, 2007

    I'm here in Peoria for a couple of reasons. One, I'm looking forward 
to going to a great American company, Caterpillar, and talking about the 
importance of opening up markets for U.S. products, because when 
Caterpillar sells its products overseas, it helps people find work here 
in Peoria. But equally importantly, I'm here with some business 
entrepreneurs and social entrepreneurs.
    Here are my impressions. One, the business sector, small-business 
sector of the heartland is strong. And it's really strong because of low 
taxes. But it's also strong because of--the entrepreneurial spirit is 
strong. You can't have a good business unless you have somebody willing 
to lead that business.

[[Page 94]]

    Secondly, I am very impressed by the civic spirit of the people 
here. People understand that when you live in a community, you have an 
obligation to help that community realize its full potential. I'm real 
proud of the Reverend, who has taken a tough neighborhood here in Peoria 
and helped revitalize that neighborhood by utilizing his skills, his 
talent, and a power higher than himself.
    The Congressman told me that when I came back to Peoria, I'd find a 
community that's vibrant and strong and optimistic, and people around 
this table are vibrant and strong and optimistic. And I can't thank you 
enough for sharing your concerns, talking about your hopes, and I can't 
thank you enough for working hard to really make America the great 
country that it is.
    So God bless, and thanks for your time.

Note: The President spoke at 9:12 a.m. at the Sterling Family 
Restaurant. In his remarks, he referred to Rev. Timothy E. Criss, 
pastor, City of Refuge Worship Center, Peoria, IL. The Office of the 
Press Secretary also released a Spanish language transcript of these 
remarks.