Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 40 (Monday, October 8, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 40 (Monday, October 8, 2007)]
[Pages 1278-1279]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8183--National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, 2007

 October 1, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Families are indispensable to a stable society, and they should be a 
place of support to instill responsibility and values in the next 
generation. When a family member is abused, it can have long-term 
damaging effects on the victim that leave a mark on family, friends, and 
the community at large. Our society must continue to work to prevent 
domestic violence and help create a loving and stable environment for 
our children and grandchildren.

[[Page 1279]]

    National Domestic Violence Awareness Month is an opportunity to 
renew our commitment to preventing domestic violence and to assisting 
those who suffer from its devastating effects. My Administration is 
dedicated to helping victims of domestic violence. The Family Justice 
Center Initiative, announced in 2003, continues to work towards 
eradicating domestic violence in our Nation. This program provides 
assistance and services for victims of domestic violence by bringing 
professionals, advocates, law enforcement, and organizations together at 
centers nationwide. In 2006, I signed legislation that reauthorized the 
Violence Against Women Act to fight domestic violence, dating violence, 
sexual assault, and stalking. We also are working with faith-based and 
community organizations to assist victims in need. In addition, the 
Department of Justice's Domestic Violence Transitional Housing 
Assistance Program provides access to transitional housing services 
while working to move victims of violence into permanent housing.
    As we observe National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, we 
underscore our commitment to building an America where all citizens can 
live with dignity, work productively, and achieve their dreams. We 
encourage victims and their families and friends to seek assistance 
through Family Justice Centers and to contact the National Domestic 
Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE. Together, we can help prevent, 
recognize, and stop domestic violence in America.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2007 as 
National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. I urge all Americans to 
reach out to those who have been abused and help educate people about 
the vital importance of ending domestic violence.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of 
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:09 a.m., October 3, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
4.