Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)]
[Page 1434]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8196--National American Indian Heritage Month, 2007

 October 31, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    National American Indian Heritage Month is an opportunity to honor 
the many contributions of American Indians and Alaska Natives and to 
recognize the strong and living traditions of the first people to call 
our land home.
    American Indians and Alaska Natives continue to shape our Nation by 
preserving the heritage of their ancestors and by contributing to the 
rich diversity that is our country's strength. Their dedicated efforts 
to honor their proud heritage have helped others gain a deeper 
understanding of the vibrant and ancient customs of the Native American 
community. We also express our gratitude to the American Indians and 
Alaska Natives who serve in our Nation's military and work to extend the 
blessings of liberty around the world.
    My Administration is committed to supporting the American Indian and 
Alaska Native cultures. In June, I signed the ``Native American Home 
Ownership Opportunity Act of 2007,'' which reauthorizes the Indian 
Housing Loan Guarantee Program, guaranteeing loans for home improvements 
and expanding home ownership for Native American families. Working with 
tribal governments, we will strive for greater security, healthier 
lifestyles, better schools, and new economic opportunities for American 
Indians and Alaska Natives.
    During National American Indian Heritage Month, we underscore our 
commitment to working with tribes on a government-to-government basis 
and to supporting tribal sovereignty and self-determination. During this 
month, I also encourage Federal agencies to continue their work with 
tribal governments to ensure sound cooperation. Efforts such as on-line 
training programs will improve interagency collaboration in the Federal 
Indian Affairs community and help to strengthen relationships with 
tribes, building a brighter future for all our citizens.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2007 as National 
American Indian Heritage Month. I call upon all Americans to commemorate 
this month with appropriate programs and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:38 a.m., November 1, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 2.