Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 24 (Monday, June 18, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 24 (Monday, June 18, 2007)]
[Page 803]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Maritime Security (Piracy) Policy

June 13, 2007

Memorandum for the Vice President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary 
of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the 
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of 
Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, Assistant to the President 
and Chief of Staff, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, 
Director of National Intelligence, Assistant to the President for 
National Security Affairs, Counsel to the President, Assistant to the 
President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, Director of the 
Central Intelligence Agency, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Director, National 
Counterterrorism Center

Subject: Maritime Security (Piracy) Policy

    The attached Policy for the Repression of Piracy and Other Criminal 
Acts of Violence at Sea (Piracy Policy) is approved for immediate 
implementation, consistent with applicable law and subject to the 
availability of appropriations. The policy shall be appended to the 
National Strategy for Maritime Security as Annex B.
    This policy responds to the emergence of high-risk maritime areas 
that threaten U.S. interests. Recent instances of piracy have 
highlighted the need for this policy in order to coordinate U.S. 
Government response and to promote international solutions. This policy 
advances our commitment to cooperate with other states, regional and 
international organizations, and the maritime industry in order to 
counter this threat. The United States has long been a leader in the 
protection of navigational rights and freedoms. Our objectives 
consistently have been to promote and facilitate peaceful international 
uses of the oceans. We recognize that all nations have an interest and 
responsibility in protecting those rights and freedoms.
                                                George W. Bush

Note: This memorandum and its attached annex were released by the Office 
of the Press Secretary on June 14.