Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 40 (Monday, October 8, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 40 (Monday, October 8, 2007)]
[Page 1300]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8185--German-American Day, 2007

 October 4, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Generations of German Americans have helped shape our national 
culture and advance our legacy of freedom. On German-American Day, we 
recognize the many contributions that Americans of German descent have 
made to our vibrant country.
    German immigrants, in search of a brighter future, were among the 
first pioneers to settle in Jamestown. Since then, German Americans have 
influenced our society in all walks of life and helped expand our 
democratic heritage and our deeply held belief in individual liberty. 
The leadership and strong spirit of German Americans have helped shape 
our country and advance the great blessings of our Nation.
    German-American Day is also an opportunity to honor the strong ties 
between the United States and Germany and to celebrate our friendship. 
On this day, we underscore our commitment to working together to promote 
peace and making the world a more hopeful place.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 6, 2007, as 
German-American Day. I encourage all Americans to celebrate the many 
contributions German Americans have made to our Nation's liberty and 
prosperity.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:55 a.m., October 5, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
October 9.