Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 9 (Monday, March 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 9 (Monday, March 5, 2007)]
[Pages 232-233]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Prior to a Lunch Meeting With Elected Officials and Community 
Leaders in New Orleans, Louisiana

March 1, 2007

    It is my pleasure to be back in New Orleans. I want to thank the 
Lieutenant Governor, the mayor, the head of the City Council, the parish 
presidents for joining me.
    I've committed to stay involved in the rebuilding of--and the United 
States Senator, excuse me, Senator--and the Congressman, I beg your 
pardon. I committed to the people of this part of the world and the gulf 
coast that the Federal Government would fund recovery and stay committed 
to the recovery. And one of the reasons I have come down is to hear from 
you. I fully understand that there are frustrations, and I want to know 
the frustrations. And to the extent we can help, we'll help. I told the 
people that I would work with the Congress to write a $110 billion check 
to help the people of Louisiana and Mississippi, and that check has been 
written. And now it's incumbent upon us to get the money into people's 
hands.
    Sometimes it's hard to see progress when you're living close to the 
scene. I guess the New Orleans Saints football team represents to me 
what's happening in this part of the State--it is a resurgence; there's 
a renewal. Even though there's a lot of work done, the spirit of the 
people down here is strong.
    And so I want to thank these leaders for joining me. It means a lot 
to me. It's good to be with you. It's also good to be in a place where 
you can buy some pretty good food. [Laughter] I'm looking forward to the 
visit.

Note: The President spoke at 2:22 p.m. at Lil' Dizzy's Cafe. In his 
remarks, he referred to Lt. Gov. Mitch Landrieu of Louisiana; Mayor C. 
Ray Nagin of New Orleans, LA; Oliver M. Thomas, Jr., president, New 
Orleans City Council; Aaron F. Broussard, president, Jefferson Parish; 
Kevin

[[Page 233]]

Davis, president, St. Tammany Parish; Billy Nungesser, president, 
Plaquemines Parish; Henry Rodriguez, president, St. Bernard Parish; M.E. 
Taylor, president, Washington Parish; and Senator David Vitter and 
Representative William J. Jefferson of Louisiana.