Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)]
[Page 1437]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8200--National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month, 2007

 October 31, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month is an opportunity to 
honor and support those living with Alzheimer's disease. During this 
month, we also seek to express our gratitude to the family members and 
caretakers who love and comfort those afflicted, and we renew our 
commitment to finding a cure to this devastating disease.
    The greatest risk factor for Alzheimer's disease is age. Scientists 
are studying how other factors such as family history, nutrition, 
environment, and education, also affect an individual's risk for 
Alzheimer's disease. The National Institutes of Health and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs continue to conduct research to better 
prevent, detect, and treat Alzheimer's disease and provide information 
and support to caretakers and families.
    During National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month, we recognize 
the millions of Americans affected by this tragic disease and honor 
those who have lost their lives to Alzheimer's. Americans are grateful 
for the resolve and dedication of medical professionals, scientific 
researchers, family members, and caregivers who give their time and 
talents and help provide hope to many.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2007 as National 
Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month. I call upon the people of the 
United States to observe this month with appropriate programs and 
activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:53 a.m., November 2, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 5.