Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 41 (Monday, October 15, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 41 (Monday, October 15, 2007)]
[Pages 1329-1330]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8190--National School Lunch Week, 2007

 October 12, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    The National School Lunch Program provides millions of lunches to 
our Nation's children each school day. During National School Lunch 
Week, we renew our commitment to the health of our children and to 
ensuring that they receive nutritious meals and develop good eating 
habits.
    Since it began in 1946, the National School Lunch Program has 
provided nutritious meals in schools across the country. The United 
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has worked to ensure that these 
meals include fresh fruits, vegetables, and milk and that they meet 
dietary recommendations so children limit fat, sodium, cholesterol, and 
excess calories in their diet.
    By learning to eat well, children can avoid problems that can lead 
to serious long-term health problems, including heart disease, asthma, 
and diabetes. Team Nutrition, part of the USDA Food and Nutrition 
Service, is playing an important role in promoting good nutrition to 
children in thousands of our Nation's schools, providing training and 
resources to food service professionals across our country.
    National School Lunch Week is an opportunity to recognize food 
service professionals, school officials, and parents for their dedicated 
efforts to provide healthy foods to America's children. This week, we 
recommit ourselves to encouraging children to make

[[Page 1330]]

nutritious food choices and lead healthy lifestyles.
    In recognition of the contributions of the National School Lunch 
Program to the health, education, and well-being of America's children, 
the Congress, by joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (Public Law 87-
780), as amended, has designated the week beginning on the second Sunday 
in October of each year as ``National School Lunch Week'' and has 
requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this 
week.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 14 through October 20, 
2007, as National School Lunch Week. I call upon all Americans to join 
the dedicated individuals who administer the National School Lunch 
Program in appropriate activities that support the health and well-being 
of our Nation's children.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:53 a.m., October 15, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
October 16.