Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 34 (Monday, August 27, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 34 (Monday, August 27, 2007)]
[Pages 1105-1106]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8167--National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month, 
2007

 August 21, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month provides an 
opportunity to underscore our commitment to stopping alcohol and drug 
abuse before it starts and to helping citizens in need overcome 
addiction and rebuild their lives.
    Alcohol and drug addiction can ruin lives and devastate families. We 
must continue working toward a society in which our citizens can lead 
lives free from the influence of alcohol and drugs. Friends and family 
members can play a vital role in the fight and prevention of abuse by 
discussing the dangers and consequences with loved ones.
    My Administration is dedicated to the battle against drug and 
alcohol addiction. We are expanding access to treatment and recovery 
support services through the Access to Recovery program. The Drug 
Enforcement Agency is helping stem the flow of illegal

[[Page 1106]]

drugs into the United States by targeting the production, distribution, 
and sale of methamphetamines and other precursor drugs. The Drug Free 
Communities Program helps our neighborhoods develop strategies to 
prevent substance abuse. First Lady Laura Bush also leads the Helping 
America's Youth program to help our Nation's young people make healthy 
choices throughout their lives and to encourage community and family-
based approaches to the challenges and risks facing today's youth.
    During National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month and 
throughout the year, we seek to raise awareness about the destructive 
cycle of addiction and work to provide assistance to those who suffer 
from substance abuse. This year's theme, ``Join the Voices for Recovery: 
Saving Lives, Saving Dollars,'' encourages Americans to recognize the 
costs of substance use disorders and understand the benefits that 
treatment can bring to those individuals, their families, and 
communities. To find out more about how to help save lives from 
substance abuse, contribute to a culture of compassion, and create a 
healthy future for our country, citizens may visit recoverymonth.gov.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2007 as National 
Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month. I call upon the people of the 
United States to observe this month with the appropriate programs, 
ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first 
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:52 a.m., August 23, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on August 22, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
August 24.