Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 19 (Monday, May 14, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 19 (Monday, May 14, 2007)]
[Pages 608-609]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on International Trade and Investment Policy

May 10, 2007

    The United States has a longstanding commitment to open economies 
that empower individuals, generate economic opportunity and prosperity 
for all, and provide the foundation for a free society. Economic 
freedom, supported by the rule of law, reinforces political freedom by 
encouraging and supporting the free flow of ideas. To continue the 
advance of liberty and prosperity, my administration will work 
vigorously to promote open investment policies and free trade on a level 
playing field.
    A free and open international investment regime is vital for a 
stable and growing economy, both here at home and throughout the world. 
The threat of global terrorism and other national security challenges 
have caused the United States and other countries to focus more intently 
on the national security dimensions of foreign investment. While my 
administration will continue to take every necessary step to protect 
national security, my administration recognizes that our prosperity and 
security are founded on our country's openness.
    As both the world's largest investor and the world's largest 
recipient of investment, the United States has a key stake in promoting 
an open investment regime. The United States unequivocally supports 
international investment in this country and is equally committed to 
securing fair, equitable, and nondiscriminatory treatment for U.S. 
investors abroad. Both inbound and outbound investment benefit our 
country by stimulating growth, creating jobs, enhancing productivity, 
and fostering competitiveness that allows our companies and their 
workers to prosper at home and in international markets. My 
administration is committed to ensuring that the United States continues 
to be the most attractive place in the world to invest. I urge other 
nations to join us in supporting an open investment policy and 
protecting international investments.
    My administration is also committed to advancing free and fair trade 
in multilateral, regional, and bilateral negotiations. We will work 
aggressively to conclude the World Trade Organization's Doha Development 
Agenda negotiations and to secure congressional approval of the free 
trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, Peru, and South

[[Page 609]]

Korea. The prospects for the Doha Development Agenda negotiations to 
produce significant new economic opportunities, particularly in 
developing countries, demand that we do everything possible to reach an 
outcome that creates new trade flows and strengthens global development.

Note: The Office of the Press Secretary also released a Spanish language 
version of this statement.