Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 50 (Monday, December 17, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 50 (Monday, December 17, 2007)]
[Page 1591]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on the Resignation of Candida Wolff and the Appointment of 
Daniel Meyers as Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs

December 14, 2007

    One of the most challenging jobs in any White House is managing the 
President's relationship with Congress. There are 535 Members of 
Congress, 2 parties, and 46 Committee chairmen--but only one Assistant 
to the President for Legislative Affairs. Candi Wolff has done a 
remarkable job of working with Congress and advancing my legislative 
agenda.
    As my chief adviser on congressional affairs, Candi has helped bring 
about many significant accomplishments, including energy legislation, 
trade agreements, tax relief, vital national security measures, and the 
confirmation of two Supreme Court Justices. Her dedication and 
enthusiasm have resulted in policies that protect the American people, 
hold the line on spending, strengthen our economy, and support our 
troops. Candi has earned the respect of Members of Congress and her 
colleagues.
    I have relied upon Candi's sound judgment, extensive experience, and 
thorough understanding of Capitol Hill as I have made decisions that 
affect the lives of all Americans. As Candi's service at the White House 
comes to an end, I appreciate her years of hard work and friendship. 
Laura and I wish Candi, her husband, Mark, and their two daughters 
Veronica and Claire all the best.
    I am pleased to announce that Dan Meyer will succeed Candi as 
Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. After serving as a 
House and Senate staffer for more than 15 years, including as chief of 
staff to the Speaker of the House, Dan knows how to help get things done 
in Congress. As a member of the legislative affairs office at the White 
House, he has been a capable leader who is well respected by Members on 
both sides of the aisle and committed to reaching solutions on important 
issues. I am confident he will perform well in this new position. I look 
forward to continuing to work with him.