Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 43 (Monday, October 29, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 43 (Monday, October 29, 2007)]
[Page 1404]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8194--United Nations Day, 2007

 October 23, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    After World War II, representatives from around the globe gathered 
to begin deliberations on a new international bill of rights. The 
document adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, stands as a landmark achievement 
in the history of human liberty. On United Nations Day, we recognize the 
contributions of this important body and underscore our dedication to 
reforming the institution and advancing the high ideals on which it was 
founded.
    Today, the United Nations must recommit itself to maintaining 
international security and helping solve economic, social, and 
humanitarian problems. This great institution must work for great 
purposes: to free people from tyranny and violence, hunger and disease, 
illiteracy and ignorance, and poverty and despair. With renewed 
commitment and courage, we can pursue the vision of the Universal 
Declaration and build a world where people are free to speak, assemble, 
and worship as they wish, and where opportunity crosses every border.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 24, 2007, as 
United Nations Day. I urge the Governors of the 50 States, the Governor 
of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the officials of other areas 
under the flag of the United States to observe United Nations Day with 
appropriate ceremonies and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:52 a.m., October 24, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
25.