Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 22 (Monday, June 4, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 22 (Monday, June 4, 2007)]
[Page 734]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8153--Caribbean-American Heritage Month, 2007

 June 1, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During June, we recognize Caribbean Americans and celebrate the many 
ways they contribute to our Nation.
    Generations of Caribbean Americans have helped shape the spirit and 
character of our country. These individuals are justly proud of their 
Caribbean roots, and they enrich the American experience by sharing 
their traditions, history, and values. Caribbean Americans of all walks 
of life have added to the vitality, success, and prosperity of our 
country. Their hard work and determination inspire all who dream of a 
better life for themselves and their families.
    Our Nation is deeply grateful to the Caribbean Americans who defend 
our liberty as members of our Armed Forces. The service and sacrifice of 
these courageous men and women are helping lay the foundation of peace 
for generations to come.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2007 as Caribbean-
American Heritage Month. I encourage all Americans to learn more about 
the history and culture of Caribbean Americans and their contributions 
to our Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of 
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:55 a.m., June 4, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
June 5.