Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 46 (Monday, November 19, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 46 (Monday, November 19, 2007)]
[Pages 1506-1507]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8203--America Recycles Day, 2007

 November 15, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    As citizens of this great Nation, we have a responsibility to 
practice good environmental stewardship. On America Recycles Day, we 
underscore our commitment to conserving our resources by recycling.
    Through curbside collections and drop-off facilities, we are turning 
waste materials--including plastic, glass, aluminum cans, paper, tires, 
batteries, and building materials--into valuable resources. Recycling is 
one of our Nation's most successful environmental initiatives, and my 
Administration is working to increase opportunities for our citizens, 
communities, and businesses to recycle. The Resource Conservation 
Challenge, created by the Environmental Protection Agency, encourages 
public and private partnerships to promote recycling. Through Plug-In To 
eCycling, we are helping reduce waste by providing consumers with 
information on how and where they can donate or safely recycle old 
electronics. Working together, we can conserve valuable resources and 
energy by managing materials more efficiently.
    On America Recycles Day and throughout the year, I encourage all 
Americans to recycle appropriate materials and products. By recycling, 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions,

[[Page 1507]]

and conserving energy, we can help build a healthier environment for 
everyone.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 15, 2007, as 
America Recycles Day. I call upon the people of the United States to 
observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day 
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:54 a.m., November 16, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 19.