Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 30 (Monday, July 30, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 30 (Monday, July 30, 2007)]
[Pages 1009-1010]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8163--Anniversary of the Americans With Disabilities Act, 
2007

 July 24, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    On the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), we 
celebrate our progress towards an America where individuals with 
disabilities are recognized for their talents and contributions to our 
society. We also underscore our commitment to extend the full liberties 
and freedoms of our great country to all Americans.
    Seventeen years ago, President George H. W. Bush signed the ADA into 
law. This legislation became one of the most successful and 
compassionate reforms in our Nation's history, helping to ensure that 
individuals with disabilities are better able to develop meaningful 
skills, engage in productive work, and participate fully in the life of 
our Nation.
    My Administration continues our work to build on this landmark 
legislation. In 2001, I announced the New Freedom Initiative to promote 
the full participation of people with disabilities in all areas of 
society by improving educational and employment opportunities, 
increasing access to assistive technologies, expanding transportation 
options, and promoting homeownership and integration into daily 
community life. The New Freedom Initiative and the ADA provide children 
with disabilities the tools they need to succeed in schools and 
communities. Working men and women living with disabilities contribute 
to our strong economy, and the ``Ticket to Work'' program and services 
at One-Stop Career Centers help expand employment opportunities. The 
DisabilityInfo.gov website connects individuals with disabilities and 
their families to vital information that helps more Americans share in 
the promises of our Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 26, 2007, as a day in 
celebration of the 17th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities 
Act. I call on all Americans to celebrate the vital contributions of 
individuals with disabilities as we work towards fulfilling the promise 
of the ADA to give all our citizens the opportunity to live with 
dignity, work productively, and achieve their dreams.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth 
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United

[[Page 1010]]

States of America the two hundred and thirty-second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:33 a.m., July 26, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on July 
27.