Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)]
[Pages 1433-1434]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8195--National Adoption Month, 2007

 October 31, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During National Adoption Month, we recognize the adoptive and foster 
families who have shared their homes and hearts with children in need, 
and we encourage more Americans to consider adopting young people of all 
ages.
    Families who adopt show the generous spirit of our Nation. Every 
child desires a permanent home, and when parents adopt a child to love 
as their own, lives are forever changed. For parents, the decision to 
adopt a child is among life's greatest and happiest turning points. On 
November 17, families across the country will celebrate National 
Adoption Day by finalizing their adoptions, and each one of these homes 
will be richer for the addition of new family members.
    My Administration is committed to promoting adoption of children of 
all ages. We are working to bring together more children with loving, 
adoptive parents through the Collaboration to AdoptUsKids at 
adoptuskids.org and by providing States with financial assistance 
through the Adoption Incentives Program. The Promoting Safe and Stable 
Families Program helps improve care and services to children and 
families and ensure more young people in America have a caring, secure, 
and permanent home. Together, these efforts are building a brighter 
future for our youth.
    During National Adoption Month, we honor adoptive and foster parents 
as they raise children of conviction and character. By accepting the 
gift of these children, parents are helping shape lives and contributing 
to the strength of our great Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2007 as National 
Adoption Month. I call upon all

[[Page 1434]]

Americans to observe this month with appropriate programs and activities 
to honor adoptive families and to participate in efforts to find 
permanent homes for waiting children.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:38 a.m., November 1, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 2.