Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 38 (Monday, September 24, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 38 (Monday, September 24, 2007)]
[Pages 1233-1234]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8177--National POW/MIA Recognition Day, 2007

 September 20, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    America has been blessed by the brave men and women of our Armed 
Forces who have answered the call to defend our country and protect 
liberty around the world. On National POW/MIA Recognition Day, we honor 
a special group of patriots: those who have been prisoners of war and 
those who are still missing in action. We remain forever in their debt, 
and we renew our commitment to them and to their families never to rest 
until we have accounted for every missing service member.
    To commemorate this day, the National League of Families POW/MIA 
flag is flown over the White House, the Capitol, the Vietnam Veterans 
Memorial, the Korean War Veterans Memorial, the World War II Memorial, 
and other locations across our country. This flag is an enduring symbol 
that reflects our solemn commitment to our courageous service members 
who have been imprisoned while serving in conflicts around the world and 
to those who remain missing. America will always remember these heroes, 
and we underscore our pledge to achieve the fullest possible accounting 
for every missing member of our Armed Forces.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Friday, September 21, 
2007, as National POW/MIA Recognition Day. I call upon the people of the 
United States to join me in honoring and remembering all former American 
prisoners of war and those missing in action who valiantly served our 
great country. I also call upon Federal, State, and local government 
officials and private organizations to observe this day with appropriate 
ceremonies and activities.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day 
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 
25, 2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
September 26.

[[Page 1234]]