Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 28 (Monday, July 16, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 28 (Monday, July 16, 2007)]
[Pages 937-938]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8160--Captive Nations Week, 2007

 July 10, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Liberty is the path to lasting peace and the unalienable right of 
every man, woman, and child. During Captive Nations Week, we underscore 
our commitment to protecting human rights, advancing democracy and 
freedom, and ending tyranny across the globe.
    Expanding freedom is a moral imperative, and today more people are 
free than ever before. Freedom is reaching around the world, and America 
is working side-by-side with new democracies in Liberia, Mauritania, 
Ukraine, Georgia, and Kyrgyzstan. The people of Kuwait held elections in 
which women were able to vote and run for office for the first time, and 
the elected parliament is exercising real influence with the government. 
We continue to stand firmly behind the citizens of Lebanon, Afghanistan, 
and Iraq as they defend their democratic gains against extremist 
enemies. Many are making great sacrifices for liberty, and they deserve 
our steadfast support.
    While there is progress in freedom's advance, nations such as 
Belarus, Burma, Cuba, North Korea, Syria, Iran, Sudan, and Zimbabwe 
still oppress their citizens. My Administration recently created the 
Human Rights Defenders Fund to provide grants for the legal defense and 
medical expenses of democratic dissidents arrested or beaten by 
repressive governments. In addition, we have nearly doubled funding for 
democracy projects throughout the world. The American people believe 
that the flame for freedom burns in every human heart, and that light 
cannot be extinguished by governments, terrorists, or tyrants. During 
Captive Nations Week, we remember that human freedom is the key to 
achieving respect for all human rights.
    The Congress, by Joint Resolution approved July 17, 1959 (73 Stat. 
212), has authorized and requested the President to issue

[[Page 938]]

a proclamation designating the third week in July of each year as 
``Captive Nations Week.''
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 15 through 21, 2007, 
as Captive Nations Week. I call upon the people of the United States to 
reaffirm our commitment to all those seeking liberty, justice, and self-
determination.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of 
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:26 a.m., July 11, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on July 
12.