Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 10 (Monday, March 12, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 10 (Monday, March 12, 2007)]
[Pages 254-255]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following a Briefing on Tornado Damage in Enterprise, Alabama

March 3, 2007

    You know, Mayor, I told the people yesterday that I come down with a 
heavy heart, and I will try, to the best of my ability, to comfort those 
who lost life and property. I know you and your council and the citizens 
here have done that as well.
    I hope it helps for the citizens here to hear that we declared your 
county a major disaster area, which will provide some relief. You can

[[Page 255]]

never heal a heart, but you can provide comfort, knowing that the 
Federal Government will provide help for those whose houses were 
destroyed or automobiles were destroyed. And I would strongly urge the 
citizens here to--if you've got a question, to call 1-800-621-FEMA, and 
there will be somebody answering your call and will give you a chance to 
find out whether or not you will qualify for the relief under the major 
disaster declaration.
    Secondly, I was talking to the Governor, and he has said that there 
have been some funds set up to help the people who suffered. And my call 
to people here in Alabama and around the United States is, if you feel 
the generosity in your heart to help people affected by this terrible 
tornado, I would ask you to contribute. One such fund is the Red Cross. 
There will be others. We will make sure that USA Freedom Corps will have 
posted on it a place where people can contribute money. Some people are 
going to need your help. There have been some poor citizens who may or 
may not qualify for Federal help, but are going to need the help of our 
fellow citizens. And I would ask you to, out of the generosity of your 
heart, to help the folks down here.
    This storm is a tough storm. It went 8 miles and affected a lot of 
lives. And this country is a prayerful country; there are a lot of 
people praying for you.

Note: The President spoke at 8:40 a.m. at Enterprise Municipal Airport. 
In his remarks, he referred to Mayor Kenneth W. Boswell of Enterprise, 
AL; and Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama.