Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 38 (Monday, September 24, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 38 (Monday, September 24, 2007)]
[Pages 1237-1238]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8179--Gold Star Mother's Day, 2007

 September 21, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    The gift of liberty is secured by heroes who have answered the call 
to serve when America needed them most. On Gold Star Mother's Day, we 
honor the mothers of the service men and women who have given their 
lives in the defense of our great Nation.
    America's Gold Star Mothers are remarkable patriots who serve their 
communities by demonstrating good citizenship, providing support and 
services to our troops and veterans, and helping comfort the families 
whose loved ones have made the ultimate sacrifice. Their sense of duty 
and deep devotion to our country inspire our Nation, and we thank them 
for their compassion, determination, and strength. Though they carry a 
great burden of grief, these courageous

[[Page 1238]]

mothers help ensure that the legacy of our fallen heroes will be forever 
remembered. On this day, we offer our deep gratitude and respect to our 
Nation's Gold Star Mothers; we honor the sons and daughters who died 
while wearing the uniform of the United States; and we pray for God's 
blessings on them, their mothers, and their families.
    The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936 (49 
Stat. 1895 as amended), has designated the last Sunday in September as 
``Gold Star Mother's Day'' and has authorized and requested the 
President to issue a proclamation in its observance.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, September 30, 2007, as Gold Star 
Mother's Day. I call upon all Government officials to display the flag 
of the United States over Government buildings on this solemn day. I 
also encourage the American people to display the flag and hold 
appropriate ceremonies as a public expression of our Nation's sympathy 
and respect for our Gold Star Mothers.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first 
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 
25, 2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
September 26.