Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 16 (Monday, April 23, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 16 (Monday, April 23, 2007)]
[Pages 485-486]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8128--Dutch-American Friendship Day, 2007

 April 19, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    On Dutch-American Friendship Day, we celebrate our longtime 
friendship with the Kingdom of the Netherlands and honor the many Dutch 
Americans who have made significant contributions to our country.
    Our close partnership with the Netherlands dates back to the 
founding of our Nation, and it remains among our oldest continuous 
relationships. Many of the Pilgrims first sailed for the New World from 
a Dutch port, and when a small American warship approached the island of 
St. Eustatius in 1776, the Dutch port there gave the American flag its 
first friendly gun salute. A few years later, the Netherlands became one 
of the first nations to recognize the independence of the United States 
of America. The United States

[[Page 486]]

and the Netherlands are continuing that tradition of close cooperation 
in the 21st century, working together to bring hope and liberty to 
places where it has long been denied.
    Dutch Americans have enriched the American experience and have 
helped write our history, strengthen our character, and shape our 
society. Today, we pay tribute to our allies in the Netherlands and 
recognize the proud citizens of Dutch ancestry who call America home.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 19, 2007, as Dutch-
American Friendship Day. I encourage all Americans to celebrate our 
country's Dutch heritage and the many ways Dutch Americans have 
strengthened our Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day 
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:29 a.m., April 23, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
April 24.