Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 52 (Monday, December 31, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 52 (Monday, December 31, 2007)]
[Page 1638]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008

December 26, 2007

    Today, I signed into law H.R. 2764, legislation that will fund the 
Federal Government within the reasonable and responsible spending levels 
I proposed--without raising taxes and without the most objectionable 
policy changes considered by the Congress. This law provides a down 
payment for the resources our troops need, without arbitrary timelines 
for withdrawal. The Congress should quickly take action next year to 
provide the remainder of the funding needed by our troops.
    I am disappointed in the way the Congress compiled this legislation, 
including abandoning the goal I set early this year to reduce the number 
and cost of earmarks by half. Instead, the Congress dropped into the 
bill nearly 9,800 earmarks that total more than $10 billion. These 
projects are not funded through a merit-based process and provide a 
vehicle for wasteful Government spending.
    There is still more to be done to rein in Government spending. In 
February I will submit my budget proposal for fiscal year 2009, which 
will once again restrain spending, keep taxes low, and continue us on a 
path towards a balanced budget. I look forward to working with the 
Congress in the coming year to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely.
    Finally, this legislation contains certain provisions similar to 
those found in prior appropriations bills passed by the Congress that 
might be construed to be inconsistent with my Constitutional 
responsibilities. To avoid such potential infirmities, the executive 
branch will interpret and construe such provisions in the same manner as 
I have previously stated in regard to similar provisions.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 December 26, 2007.