Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 25 (Monday, June 25, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 25 (Monday, June 25, 2007)]
[Pages 835-836]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following a Meeting With the House Republican Conference and an 
Exchange With Reporters

June 20, 2007

    The President. I want to thank Congressmen Boehner, Blunt, and other 
leaders of the House of Representatives for coming today. We just had a 
discussion about how we will work together to make sure that when we 
spend the taxpayers' money, we do so in a way that is fiscally sound and 
keeps our economy growing. I have submitted a budget to the Congress 
that sets priorities--no greater priority, by the way, than defending 
this homeland against attack. It's a budget

[[Page 836]]

that keeps taxes low so the economy continues to grow. And it's a budget 
that will balance--be in balance in 5 years.

    Now, there's an alternative budget that has been presented in the 
Congress by the Democrats, which will increase spending by a significant 
amount, in our view, and will require tax raises in order to meet that 
spending. We don't think that's right for the country. We don't think 
that's a good way to keep the economy strong. And we think we ought to 
be trusting taxpayers with their own money, so they can make choices 
with their money.

    And so, to this end, the Members of Congress delivered me a letter--
147 signatures on it--that said they will support me on any veto of a 
bill that is--exceeds the spending limits that we collectively think is 
necessary for the good of the country.

    And I want to thank the Members for coming. I assured them that I'm 
going to work with them to represent the taxpayers and the working 
people of the United States, represent the small-business owners that 
are working hard to realize their dreams and increase their payrolls. 
And we will be effective by working together.

    And I thank these leaders for coming down and spending time with us 
to talk about this important strategy. Of course, we talk all the time 
because we've got a common goal, which is to keep the economy strong and 
the Nation safe. And I appreciate you working with us to achieve that 
objectives.

    Thank you. Thank you.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, NY

    Q. What do you think about Bloomberg?

    The President. That's a fine news organization, but who do you 
work--no. [Laughter]

Note: The President spoke at 3:24 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. A portion of these remarks could not be verified because the tape 
was incomplete.