Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 2 (Monday, January 15, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 2 (Monday, January 15, 2007)]
[Pages 34-39]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
 Nominations Submitted to the Senate

________________________________________________________________________


The following list does not include promotions of members of the 
Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations 
of Foreign Service officers.

________________________________________________________________________


Submitted January 9

John Preston Bailey,

of West Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of 
West Virginia, vice Frederick P. Stamp, Jr., retired.

Valerie L. Baker,

of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of 
California, vice Consuelo B. Marshall, retired.

Vanessa Lynne Bryant,

of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of 
Connecticut, vice Dominic J. Squatrito, retired.

Carol A. Dalton,

of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior 
Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice A. Noel 
Anketell Kramer, elevated.

Mary O. Donohue,

of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New 
York, vice Frederick J. Scullin, Jr., retired.

Thomas Alvin Farr,

of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of 
North Carolina, vice Malcolm J. Howard, retired.

Nora Barry Fischer,

of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of 
Pennsylvania, vice Robert J. Cindrich, resigned.

Dabney Langhorne Friedrich,

of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for the 
remainder of the term expiring October 31, 2009, vice Michael O'Neill, 
to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the 
Senate.

Gregory Kent Frizzell,

of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of 
Oklahoma, vice Sven E. Holmes, resigned.

Philip S. Gutierrez,

of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of 
California, vice Terry J. Hatter, Jr., retired.

Thomas M. Hardiman,

of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice 
Richard L. Nygaard, retired.

Marcia Morales Howard,

of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of 
Florida, vice Harvey E. Schlesinger, retired.

Beryl A. Howell,

of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing 
Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2011 (reappointment), to 
which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.

John Alfred Jarvey,

of Iowa, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, 
vice Ronald E. Longstaff, retired.

Frederick J. Kapala,

of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of 
Illinois, vice Philip G. Reinhard, retiring.

Peter D. Keisler,

of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia 
Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated.

Sara Elizabeth Lioi,

of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, 
vice Lesley Brooks Wells, retired.

[[Page 35]]

Debra Ann Livingston,

of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice John 
M. Walker, Jr., retired.

Roslynn Renee Mauskopf,

of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New 
York, vice David G. Trager, retired.

Liam O'Grady,

of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of 
Virginia, vice Claude M. Hilton, retired.

Lawrence Joseph O'Neill,

of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of 
California, vice Oliver W. Wanger, retired.

William Lindsay Osteen, Jr.,

of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of 
North Carolina, vice William L. Osteen, Sr., retired.

Halil Suleyman Ozerden,

of Mississippi, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of 
Mississippi, vice David C. Bramlette, retired.

Heidi M. Pasichow,

of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior 
Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Anna 
Blackburne-Rigsby, elevated.

Martin Karl Reidinger,

of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of 
North Carolina, vice Graham C. Mullen, retired.

James Edward Rogan,

of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of 
California, vice Nora M. Manella, resigned.

Thomas D. Schroeder,

of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of 
North Carolina, vice Frank W. Bullock, Jr., retired.

Benjamin Hale Settle,

of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of 
Washington, vice Franklin D. Burgess, retired.

Norman Randy Smith,

of Idaho, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Stephen 
S. Trott, retired.

John R. Steer,

of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term 
expiring October 31, 2011 (reappointment), to which position he was 
appointed during the last recess of the Senate.

Lisa Godbey Wood,

of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of 
Georgia, vice Dudley H. Bowen, Jr., retired.

Otis D. Wright II,

of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of 
California, vice Gary L. Taylor, retired.

George H. Wu,

of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of 
California, vice Ronald S.W. Lew, retired.

Anthony C. Epstein,

of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior 
Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Susan 
Rebecca Holmes, retired.

Leslie Southwick,

of Mississippi, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice 
Charles W. Pickering, Sr., retired.

Joseph S. Van Bokkelen,

of Indiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of 
Indiana, vice Rudy Lozano, retiring.

Katherine Almquist,

of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for 
International Development, vice Lloyd O. Pierson, resigned.

Carl Joseph Artman,

of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice David 
Wayne Anderson.

Michael J. Astrue,

of Massachusetts, to be Commissioner of Social Security for a term 
expiring January 19, 2013, vice Jo Anne Barnhart.

[[Page 36]]

Alex A. Beehler,

of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agency, 
vice Nikki Rush Tinsley, resigned.

Warren Bell,

of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 
2012, vice Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, resigned, to which position he was 
appointed during the last recess of the Senate.

Wayne Cartwright Beyer,

of New Hampshire, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations 
Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2010, vice Othoniel 
Armendariz, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of 
the Senate.

Andrew G. Biggs,

of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term 
expiring January 19, 2013, vice James B. Lockhart III.

Anita K. Blair,

of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Michael 
L. Dominguez.

Steven G. Bradbury,

of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jack Landman 
Goldsmith III, resigned.

Michael J. Burns,

of New Mexico, to be Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear 
and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs, vice Dale Klein, resigned.

Gregory B. Cade,

of Virginia, to be Administrator of the U.S. Fire Administration, 
Department of Homeland Security, vice R. David Paulison, resigned.

Curtis S. Chin,

of New York, to be U.S. Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the 
rank of Ambassador, vice Paul William Speltz.

Peter E. Cianchette,

of Maine, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board 
for a term expiring September 14, 2010, vice Nancy Killefer, term 
expired.

John Ray Correll,

of Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
and Enforcement, vice Jeffrey D. Jarrett.

Paul DeCamp,

of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, 
Department of Labor, vice Tammy Dee McCutchen, resigned.

Susan E. Dudley,

of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and 
Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice John D. 
Graham, resigned.

Michael F. Duffy,

of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 
2012 (reappointment).

Sam Fox,

of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to Belgium.

C. Boyden Gray,

of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States 
of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.

Floyd Hall,

of New Jersey, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 
5 years, vice Amy M. Rosen, term expired.

Thomas E. Harvey,

of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
(Congressional Affairs), vice Pamela M. Iovino, resigned.

Richard Allan Hill,

of Montana, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation 
for National and Community Service for a term expiring June 10, 2009, 
vice Juanita Sims Doty, term expired.

D. Jeffrey Hirschberg,

of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for 
a term expiring August 13, 2007 (reappointment).

[[Page 37]]

Richard E. Hoagland,

of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign 
Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and 
Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of 
Armenia.

Arlene Holen,

of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 
2010, vice Robert H. Beatty, Jr., term expired.

Caroline C. Hunter,

of Florida, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a 
term expiring December 12, 2009, vice Paul S. DeGregorio, term expired.

Scott A. Keller,

of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, vice Steven B. Nesmith, resigned.

Peter N. Kirsanow,

of Ohio, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the 
term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2008, vice Ronald E. Meisburg.

Kevin M. Kolevar,

of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Electricity 
Delivery and Energy Reliability), vice John S. Shaw, resigned.

James R. Kunder,

of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for 
International Development, vice Frederick W. Schieck.

Robert D. Lenhard,

of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a 
term expiring April 30, 2011, vice Danny Lee McDonald, term expired.

Margrethe Lundsager,

of Virginia, to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Monetary 
Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Nancy P. Jacklin, term expired.

Jane C. Luxton,

of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and 
Atmosphere, vice James R. Mahoney.

Roger Romulus Martella, Jr.,

of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency, vice Ann R. Klee, resigned.

David M. Mason,

of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a 
term expiring April 30, 2009 (reappointment).

Patricia Mathes,

of Texas, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory 
Board for a term expiring November 25, 2007, vice Mark G. Yudof, 
resigned.

Andrew J. McKenna, Jr.,

of Illinois, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for 
a term of 4 years, vice Robert N. Shamansky, term expired.

Mark McKinnon,

of Texas, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a 
term expiring August 13, 2009, vice Fayza Veronique Boulad Rodman, to 
which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.

William W. Mercer,

of Montana, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Robert D. McCallum, 
Jr.

Daniel Meron,

of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human 
Services, vice Alex Azar II.

Hector E. Morales,

of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American 
Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2010, vice Jose A. 
Fourquet, resigned.

Julie L. Myers,

of Kansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice 
Michael J. Garcia.

[[Page 38]]

James F.X. O'Gara,

of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of 
National Drug Control Policy, vice Barry D. Crane.

David Palmer,

of Maryland, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2011, vice Cari M. Dominguez, 
term expired.

John L. Palmer,

of New York, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-
Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability 
Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment).

John L. Palmer,

of New York, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years 
(reappointment).

John L. Palmer,

of New York, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment).

Stanley Davis Phillips,

of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of 
the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia.

Dean A. Pinkert,

of Virginia, to be a member of the United States International Trade 
Commission for the term expiring December 16, 2015, vice Jennifer Anne 
Hillman, term expired.

John A. Rizzo,

of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Central 
Intelligence Agency, vice Scott W. Muller, resigned.

Rosemary E. Rodriguez,

of Colorado, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for 
the remainder of the term expiring December 12, 2007, vice Raymundo 
Martinez III, resigned.

Ellen R. Sauerbrey,

of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, 
Refugees, and Migration), vice Arthur E. Dewey, resigned.

Thomas R. Saving,

of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment).

Thomas R. Saving,

of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age 
and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment).

Thomas R. Saving,

of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years 
(reappointment).

Leon R. Sequeira,

of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Veronica Vargas 
Stidvent.

Ron Silver,

of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. 
Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2009, vice Stephen D. 
Krasner, term expired.

Charles Darwin Snelling,

of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the 
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring May 30, 
2012 (reappointment).

Enrique J. Sosa,

of Florida, to be a member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of 5 
years, vice Linwood Holton, term expired.

Richard Stickler,

of West Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and 
Health, vice David D. Lauriski, resigned.

Michael W. Tankersley,

of Texas, to be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank (new position).

Judy Van Rest,

of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. 
Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2009, vice Daniel 
Pipes.

[[Page 39]]

Hans von Spakovsky,

of Georgia, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term 
expiring April 30, 2011, vice Bradley A. Smith, resigned.

Dennis P. Walsh,

of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for 
the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2009 (reappointment).

Steven T. Walther,

of Nevada, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term 
expiring April 30, 2009, vice Scott E. Thomas, term expired.

William Ludwig Wehrum, Jr.,

of Tennessee, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency, vice Jeffrey R. Holmstead, resigned.

Catherine G. West,

of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Internal Revenue 
Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2008, vice 
Karen Hastie Williams, term expired.

Ellen C. Williams,

of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term 
expiring December 8, 2016 (reappointment).

Irving A. Williamson,

of New York, to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission 
for the term expiring June 16, 2014, vice Stephen Koplan, term expired.
Submitted January 10

P. Robert Fannin,

of Arizona, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Dominican Republic.

Douglas Menarchik,

of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for 
International Development (reappointment).

William Raymond Steiger,

of Wisconsin, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique.

Bradley Udall,

of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. 
Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy 
Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2012 (reappointment).

Howard Charles Weizmann,

of Maryland, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, vice Dan Gregory Blair.
Submitted January 11

David James Gribbin, IV,

of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, 
vice Jeffrey A. Rosen.

John Roberts Hackman,

of Virginia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia for 
the term of 4 years, vice John Francis Clark.