Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 9 (Monday, March 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 9 (Monday, March 5, 2007)]
[Page 215]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8107--Irish-American Heritage Month, 2007

 February 26, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    The friendship between Ireland and the United States has deep roots, 
and Irish Americans have played an integral role in making our country a 
place of hope and opportunity. During Irish-American Heritage Month, we 
recognize the vital contributions of Irish Americans to our Nation.
    Since our founding, Irish immigrants have come to America's shores 
in search of better lives. Today, millions of American citizens are of 
Irish descent, and they and their forbearers have helped shape our way 
of life, strengthened our economy, and contributed to the arts, and 
protected our Nation. Irish Americans have shown their devotion to our 
country by serving in our Armed Forces. America is especially grateful 
to these brave men and women for the sacrifices that have helped 
preserve the ideals of our country and made the world a safer place.
    During the month of March, we reflect on our Nation's past and how 
Irish Americans helped create the country we live in today. America is a 
melting pot of cultures, and Irish-American Heritage Month is an 
opportunity to celebrate the accomplishments of Irish-American citizens 
and remind our people we are blessed to be a Nation of immigrants.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2007 as Irish-
American Heritage Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month 
by celebrating the contributions of Irish Americans to our Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth 
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:35 a.m., February 28, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on March 
1.