Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 13 (Monday, April 2, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 13 (Monday, April 2, 2007)]
[Pages 375-376]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8116--Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A., 2007

 March 26, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    A future of hope and opportunity in America requires that all our 
children develop the knowledge and character they need in life. On 
Education and Sharing Day, we recognize our responsibility to ensure 
that our young people have the foundation necessary to lead lives rich 
in purpose and fulfillment.
    Education and Sharing Day honors the legacy of Rabbi Menachem Mendel 
Schneerson and emphasizes our commitment to teach the next generation of 
Americans the values that make our country strong. The Lubavitcher Rebbe 
believed that society should ``make a new commitment to kindness,'' and 
he helped to establish education and outreach centers offering social 
service programs and humanitarian aid around the world.
    The character of our young people is strengthened by serving a cause 
greater than self and by the anchor of virtues, including courage and 
compassion. By instilling a spirit of service in our children, we create 
a more optimistic future for them and our Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America,

[[Page 376]]

by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of 
the United States, do hereby proclaim March 30, 2007, as Education and 
Sharing Day, U.S.A. I call upon government officials, educators, 
volunteers, and all the people of the United States to reach out to 
young people and work to create a better, brighter, and more hopeful 
future for all.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth 
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:53 a.m., March 28, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on March 27, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
March 29.