Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 40 (Monday, October 8, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 40 (Monday, October 8, 2007)]
[Page 1301]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8187--Leif Erikson Day, 2007

 October 4, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    On Leif Erikson Day, we commemorate the enduring legacy of a brave 
explorer and honor the significant contributions of Nordic Americans who 
continue to enrich our culture and our way of life.
    Leif Erikson, a son of Iceland and grandson of Norway, led a 
determined crew across the Atlantic more than 1,000 years ago and became 
one of the first Europeans known to reach North America. The courage of 
these pioneers helped open the world to new exploration and important 
discoveries. Today, Nordic Americans help strengthen our country, and 
their determination and optimism make America a more hopeful land. Our 
Nation continues to benefit from strong ties with Denmark, Finland, 
Iceland, Norway, and Sweden, and we are grateful for their continued 
friendship.
    To honor Leif Erikson and to celebrate our citizens of Nordic-
American heritage, the Congress, by joint resolution (Public Law 88-566) 
approved on September 2, 1964, has authorized the President to proclaim 
October 9 of each year as ``Leif Erikson Day.''
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 2007, as Leif Erikson Day. I call 
upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, 
activities, and programs to honor our rich Nordic-American heritage.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:55 a.m., October 5, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
October 9.