Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)]
[Pages 1437-1438]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8201--National Diabetes Month, 2007

 October 31, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Diabetes is a debilitating disease that affects millions of 
Americans of all ages and all walks of life. National Diabetes Month is 
an opportunity to raise awareness about risk factors, prevention, and 
treatment of this serious disease.
    Diabetes is a chronic illness that leaves the body unable to produce 
or properly use insulin to maintain healthy blood glucose levels. The 
two most common forms of the disease that affect our citizens are Type 1 
and Type 2 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes, once known as juvenile diabetes, 
is usually diagnosed in children and young adults who are unable to 
produce insulin and require daily medication. Type 2 diabetes, the most 
common form of the disease, is often attributed to lifestyle risk 
factors and can be controlled by a modified diet, regular physical 
activity, and medication. Americans can take steps to control the 
disease and lower the risk of complications such as heart disease, 
stroke, and kidney disease by maintaining healthy eating and exercise 
habits, and consulting with a doctor about diabetes testing.
    My Administration is committed to providing better care for people 
living with diabetes and furthering efforts to find a cure. We have 
supported research initiatives and education programs that encourage 
healthy living, and we have also modified Medicare coverage to include 
diabetes screenings. This year, the National Institutes of Health 
estimates that more than $1 billion will be spent on diabetes research. 
By working together, we can help identify problems early, manage them 
before they grow worse, and help ensure more Americans live longer, 
healthier lives.

[[Page 1438]]

    Throughout National Diabetes Month, we recognize the medical 
professionals, scientists, researchers, and all those whose efforts have 
made a positive difference in the fight against diabetes. By raising 
public awareness, we can help combat the effects of diabetes in our 
society and bring hope to children and families living with this 
disease.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2007 as National 
Diabetes Month. I call upon all Americans to learn more about the risk 
factors and symptoms associated with diabetes and to observe this month 
with appropriate programs and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:53 a.m., November 2, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 5.