Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 43 (Monday, October 29, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 43 (Monday, October 29, 2007)]
[Pages 1385-1386]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8193--National Forest Products Week, 2007

 October 19, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During National Forest Products Week, we celebrate the rich 
blessings of our Nation's forests, and we recognize the important 
resources they provide to our communities and our economy.
    Our Nation's forests supply vital products and create important 
employment opportunities. Trees provide wood to make homes, furniture, 
musical instruments, paper for books and newspapers, and packaging 
materials. These and other products are created

[[Page 1386]]

by the construction and manufacturing industries and provide economic 
security for many of our citizens.
    All Americans have an obligation to protect the Earth and a 
responsibility to be good stewards of our land, and my Administration 
has made forest health a high priority. Under the Healthy Forest 
Initiative, we are helping to protect the American people, their 
communities, and the environment from potentially devastating wildfires. 
Together we can conserve our woodlands and help leave a lasting legacy 
for future generations.
    Recognizing the importance of our forests in ensuring our Nation's 
well-being, the Congress, by Public Law 86-753 (36 U.S.C. 123), as 
amended, has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in 
October of each year as ``National Forest Products Week'' and has 
authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in 
observance of this week.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim October 21 through October 27, 2007, as 
National Forest Products Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this 
week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day 
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:50 a.m., October 23, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on October 20, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
October 24.