Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43 Issue 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 43, Number 44 (Monday, November 5, 2007)]
[Pages 1434-1435]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8197--National Family Caregivers Month, 2007

 October 31, 2007

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Each year during National Family Caregivers Month, we celebrate all 
those who dedicate themselves to caring for others and

[[Page 1435]]

recognize their efforts to comfort and improve the lives of their loved 
ones in need.
    One of our Nation's defining values is compassion, and we must do 
our best to see that every citizen is treated with dignity and respect. 
Family caregivers demonstrate this compassion, often at great sacrifice, 
to assist with everyday activities for family members who are elderly, 
chronically ill, or disabled. This dedication contributes to a culture 
of caring and responsibility across our country.
    My Administration remains committed to supporting family caregivers 
by enhancing their access to services, agencies, and other providers. 
Late last year, I signed ``The Lifespan Respite Care Act of 2006,'' 
which establishes a program to assist family caregivers in accessing 
affordable and high-quality respite care. The National Family Caregiver 
Support Program encourages cooperation among agencies and other 
organizations that support and work with the family caregivers. This 
program offers information, training, and counseling to help family 
caregivers assist their loved ones.
    National Family Caregivers Month is a time to recognize family 
caregivers for their good hearts and tireless support. Their love and 
devotion exemplify the true spirit of America.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2007 as National 
Family Caregivers Month. I encourage all Americans to honor the selfless 
service of caregivers who support their loved ones in need.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand seven, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:38 a.m., November 1, 
2007]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 2.