Administration of Barack Obama, 2011 Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting Designations Under the Kingpin Act June 1, 2011 Dear __________: This report to the Congress, under section 804(a) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, 21 U.S.C. 1901–1908 (the "Kingpin Act"), transmits my designations of the following seven foreign individuals as appropriate for sanctions under the Kingpin Act and reports my direction of sanctions against them under the Act: Manuel Torres Felix (Mexico) Gonzalo Inzunza Inzunza (Mexico) Haji Lal Jan Ishaqzai (Afghanistan) Kamchybek Asanbekovich Kolbayev (Kyrgyzstan) John Harun Mwau (Kenya) Naima Mohamed Nyakiniywa (Kenya) Javier Antonio Calle Serna (Colombia) Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA NOTE: Identical letters were sent to Carl Levin, chairman, and John McCain, ranking member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; Max S. Baucus, chairman, and Orrin G. Hatch, ranking member, Senate Committee on Finance; John F. Kerry, chairman, and Richard G. Lugar, ranking member, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations; Patrick J. Leahy, chairman, and Charles E. Grassley, ranking member, Senate Committee on the Judiciary; Dianne Feinstein, chairman, and Saxby Chambliss, vice chairman, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence; Howard P. "Buck" McKeon, chairman, and Adam Smith, ranking member, House Committee on Armed Services; Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, chairman, and Howard L. Berman, ranking member, House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Lamar S. Smith, chairman, and John Conyers, Jr., ranking member, House Committee on the Judiciary; David L. Camp, chairman, and Sander M. Levin, ranking member, House Committee on Ways and Means; and Mike Rogers, chairman and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, ranking member, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Categories: Communications to Congress : Kingpin Act, letter transmitting designations. Names: Calle Serna, Javier Antonio; Inzunza, Gonzalo Inzunza; Ishaqzai, Haji Lal Jan; Kolbayev, Kamchybek A.; Mwau, John Harun; Nyakiniywa, Naima Mohamed; Torres Felix, Manuel. Subjects: Drug abuse and trafficking : Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act; Drug abuse and trafficking : Foreign narcotics traffickers. DCPD Number: DCPD201100415. 