Administration of Barack Obama, 2011 Message to the Congress on Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Actions and Policies of Certain Members of the Government of Belarus and Other Persons to Undermine Belarus Democratic Processes or Institutions June 14, 2011 To the Congress of the United States: Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice stating that the national emergency and related measures blocking the property of certain persons undermining democratic processes or institutions in Belarus are to continue in effect beyond June 16, 2011. The flawed December 2010 Presidential election in Belarus and its aftermath—the harsh violence against peaceful demonstrators; the continuing detention, prosecution, and imprisonment of opposition Presidential candidates and others; and the continuing repression of independent media and civil society activists—all show that the Government of Belarus has taken steps backward in the development of democratic governance and respect for human rights. The actions and policies of the Government of Belarus and other persons to undermine Belarus democratic processes or institutions, to commit human rights abuses related to political repression, and to engage in public corruption pose a continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the national emergency declared to deal with this threat and the related measures blocking the property of certain persons. BARACK OBAMA The White House, June 14, 2011. NOTE: The message referred to opposition Presidential candidates Vladimir Neklyaev, Andrei Sannikov, Vital Rymasheuski, Nikolai Statkevich, and Dmitry Uss of Belarus. Categories: Communications to Congress : Belarus, blocking property of certain persons undermining democratic processes or institutions, U.S. national emergency, message on continuation. Names: Neklayev, Vladimir; Rymasheuski, Vital; Sannikov, Andrei; Statkevich, Nikolai; Uss, Dmitry. Subjects: Belarus : Democracy efforts; Belarus : Human rights issues; Belarus : U.S. national emergency, continuation. DCPD Number: DCPD201100445. 