Administration of Barack Obama, 2011 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2011 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 1 In the morning, in Kailua, HI, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 2 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he signed H.R. 847, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010. January 3 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. January 4 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President stopped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Minister of Foreign Affairs Yang Jiechi of China. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to the White House on January 10. January 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Reps. Eric Cantor and Nancy Pelosi. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.  The President announced his intention to nominate Allison A. Hickey to be Under Secretary for Benefits at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Jenni R. LeCompte to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Steve L. Muro to be Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Virginia A. Seitz to be Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Lafe E. Solomon to be General Counsel at the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Terence F. Flynn to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board. January 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. January 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Landover, MD, where he toured Thompson Creek Window Company and met with employees. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. January 8 In the afternoon, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and White House Deputy Chief of Staff James A. Messina on the shootings in Tucson, AZ. Later, he left a telephone message for Mark E. Kelly, husband of shooting victim Representative Gabrielle D. Giffords, and had separate telephone conversations with Governor Janice K. Brewer of Arizona, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and Reps. Eric Cantor, Nancy Pelosi, Steny H. Hoyer, James E. Clyburn, and Edward Lopez Pastor regarding the shootings. Later in the afternoon, the President was briefed by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, White House Deputy Chief of Staff James A. Messina, Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs Philip M. Schiliro, National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, White House Senior Adviser David Axelrod, White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer, and White House Scheduling and Advance Director Alyssa Mastromonaco on the ongoing investigation of the shootings in Tucson, AZ. January 9 During the day, the President was briefed several times by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the ongoing investigation of the shootings in Tucson, AZ. In the evening, the President was briefed by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III on the ongoing investigation of the shooting in Tucson, AZ. He also had separate telephone conversations with the families of Christina-Taylor Green and Gabriel M. Zimmerman, victims of the shootings, and Sens. Jon L. Kyl and John McCain. January 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing and was updated by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the ongoing investigation of the shootings in Tucson, AZ. Then, on the South Lawn, he and Mrs. Obama observed a moment of silence to honor the victims of the shootings. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. January 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing and met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Vice President Joe Biden. He also had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations, the situation in Lebanon, and the King's recovery from medical treatment in the U.S. The White House announced that the President will travel to Tucson, AZ, on January 12. January 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din al-Hariri of Lebanon on the situation in Lebanon and Lebanon-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Tucson, AZ. Upon arrival they traveled to the University Medical Center, where they visited Representative Gabrielle D. Giffords and four other victims of the January 8 shootings, toured the facilities, and met hospital staffers. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the McKale Center at the University of Arizona, where they met separately with the families of individuals killed in the January 8 shootings, shooting victims discharged from the hospital and their families, Rep. Giffords's staff and their families, and the first-responders and bystanders who rendered aid during the shootings. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. January 13 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. January 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing and met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan to discuss Pakistan-U.S. relations, the promotion of regional stability, and ongoing counterterrorism cooperation. In the afternoon, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia to discuss Georgia's economic development, trade, the situation in the Caucasus, and Georgia's participation in military operations in Afghanistan. The White House announced that the President will travel to Schenectady, NY, on January 21.  January 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to discuss the January 1 terrorist bombings in Alexandria, the situations in Tunisia and Lebanon, and the Middle East peace process. He then had an intelligence briefing and met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working dinner with President Hu Jintao of China. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael B. Coleman, Horace H. Foxall, Jr., and Bradford J. White as members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Carole E. Goldberg, Theresa M. Pouley, and Ted Quasula as members of the Indian Law and Order Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Norma Lee Funger as general trustee of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. January 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with President Hu Jintao of China. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with expanded U.S. and China delegations. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted President Hu upon his arrival for a state dinner and reception. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photograph with President Hu. January 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing and met with his senior advisers. He then had economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with a bipartisan group of mayors to discuss job creation and the economy. January 21 In the morning, in the East Room, the President hosted a reception for attendees of the United States Conference of Mayors. Then, he traveled to Schenectady, NY, where he toured a General Electric plant and met with employees. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President traveled to Cambridge, MD, where, at the Hyatt Regency Chesapeake Bay, he attended the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. January 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to discuss the January 1 terrorist bombings in Alexandria, the situations in Tunisia and Lebanon, and the Middle East peace process. He then had an intelligence briefing and met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.  In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working dinner with President Hu Jintao of China. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael B. Coleman, Horace H. Foxall, Jr., and Bradford J. White as members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Carole E. Goldberg, Theresa M. Pouley, and Ted Quasula as members of the Indian Law and Order Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Norma Lee Funger as general trustee of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. January 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with President Hu Jintao of China. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with expanded U.S. and China delegations. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted President Hu upon his arrival for a state dinner and reception. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photograph with President Hu. January 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing and met with his senior advisers. He then had economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with a bipartisan group of mayors to discuss job creation and the economy. January 21 In the morning, in the East Room, the President hosted a reception for attendees of the United States Conference of Mayors. Then, he traveled to Schenectady, NY, where he toured a General Electric plant and met with employees. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President traveled to Cambridge, MD, where, at the Hyatt Regency Chesapeake Bay, he attended the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. January 24 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, on the State Floor, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for new Members of Congress. The President announced his intention to nominate David S. Cohen to be Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Crimes at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., to be U.S. Solicitor General at the Department of Justice. January 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to express his condolences on the terrorist attack in Moscow on January 24 and discuss counterterrorism cooperation efforts and the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START). January 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Green Bay, WI, and then on to Manitowoc, WI, where he toured Orion Energy Systems, Inc., and met with employees. Later, he took separate tours of Skana Aluminum Co. and Tower Tech Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of Broadwind Energy, Inc., and met with their employees. Then he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Henry F. Floyd to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Green to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. The President announced his intention to nominate Ramona Villagomez Manglona to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Paul Oetken to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced his intention to nominate Nelva Gonzales Ramos to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced his intention to nominate Natasha Perdew Silas and Linda T. Walker to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The President announced his intention to appoint Roberta Achtenberg and Marty R. Castro as Commissioners of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health: JudyAnn Bigby; Valerie Brown; Jonathan E. Fielding; Ned Helms, Jr.; Charlotte R. Kerr; Jeffrey Levi; Elizabeth Mayer-Davis; Vivek H. Murthy; Barbara Otto; Linda Rosenstock; John R. Seffrin; Susan Swider; and Sharon Von Horn. The President announced his intention to appoint Linda Randall as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, flooding, and debris and mud flows from December 17, 2010, through January 4, 2011. January 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Situation Room, they met with the national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he had an interview with Steve Grove of YouTube.com. In the evening, the President was briefed by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon via a memorandum on the situation in Egypt. January 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Egypt. Later, also in the Oval Office, they had an economic briefing. Then, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and National Security Adviser Shiv Shankar Menon of India. Then, he was again briefed on the situation in Egypt. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with 2010 SAVE (Securing Americans' Value and Efficiency) Award winner Trudy Givens and her family. Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to discuss the situation in Egypt. January 29 In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, National Security Adviser to the Vice President Tony Blinken, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Special Adviser to the Secretary of State for the Gulf and Southwest Asia Dennis B. Ross, Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Daniel B. Shapiro, White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, and White House Senior Adviser David Plouffe to discuss the situation in Egypt. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, and King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the situation in Egypt. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended an event for departing White House Senior Adviser David Axelrod. The White House announced that the President will travel to State College, PA, on February 2. January 30 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Egypt. January 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in Room 430 at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President met with participants of the Women's Online Summit. The White House announced that the President's trip to State College, PA, was rescheduled to February 3 due to inclement weather. February 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate on the Federal Government's preparations for the severe winter storm impacting more than two dozen States. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he met with members of the Cabinet. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the Technology CEO Council to discuss competitiveness, education, innovation, and the need for strategic investments to create jobs and grow the economy. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss the situation in Egypt. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to the White House on February 4. The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding from December 12 through 19, 2010. February 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate on the Federal Government's ongoing response to the severe winter storm impacting various States. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden had an economic briefing. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President signed the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START). In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Sen. John McCain. He then had a meeting with Vice President Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Sen. Jesse F. "Jeff" Bingaman, Jr. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen to discuss the protests in southern Yemen and the proposed political reforms of the Yemen Government. The President announced that he has nominated Paul A. Engelmayer to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Arvo Mikkanen to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 31 and continuing. February 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Pennsylvania State University in University Park, PA, where he and Secretary of Energy Steven Chu toured laboratories focused on energy-efficient building solutions. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has nominated Jennifer A. Di Toro, Donna M. Murphy, and Yvonne M. Williams to be associate judges on the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 31 and continuing. February 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden has a working lunch with Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell. Later, also in the Oval Office, he held separate bilateral meetings with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Egypt. The White House announced that the President will travel to Marquette, MI, on February 10. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan K. Stern as Chair of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships: Leith Anderson, Andrea Bazan, Angela Glover Blackwell, Brian Gallagher, Bishop Mark Hanson, Lynne Hybels, Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori, Rabbi Julie Schonfeld, Archbishop Demetrios Trakatellis, Sister Marlene Weisenbeck, and Elder Nancy L. Wilson. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from December 26 through 27, 2010. February 5 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces  of the United Arab Emirates; Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom; and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Egypt. February 6 In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in a live television interview with Bill O'Reilly of FOX News for the FOX Super Bowl XLV Pre-Game Show. Later, in the East Room, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a Super Bowl party. February 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and had lunch with former Chair of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board Paul A. Volcker. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, he called Green Bay Packers head coach Mike McCarthy to congratulation him on his team's victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers in Super Bowl XLV. February 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with members of the National Policy Alliance. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. February 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Senator James H. Webb to discuss the Senator's decision not to seek reelection in 2012. Later in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the situation in Egypt. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President, Vice President Biden, and White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley had a working lunch with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Reps. Eric Cantor and Kevin McCarthy. Later, he dropped in on a meeting in the Roosevelt Room between Vice President Biden and Prime Minister Borut Pahor of Slovenia. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. February 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a briefing on the situation in Egypt with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, and continued to receive updates throughout the day. Later, he traveled to Marquette, MI. In the afternoon, the President visited Doncker's restaurant and fudge shop. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Scott Gration to be Ambassador to the Republic of Kenya. The President announced his intention to nominate Marilyn A. Quagliotti to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Henry J. Aaron to be Chair of the Social Security Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Ana Margarita "Cha" Guzman and Michael Guest as a members of the National Security Education Board. February 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. February 12 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, King Abdullah II of Jordan, and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Egypt. February 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he visited a science classroom at Parkville Middle School and Center of Technology. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. February 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with former President George H.W. Bush. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco, CA, on February 17; to Portland, OR, on February, 18; and Cleveland, OH, on February 22. February 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Boy Scouts of America participants and executive leadership. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Sens. Richard J. Durbin, Charles E. Schumer, and Patty Murray. In the evening, in the Family Movie Theatre, the President attended a screening of the film "Thurgood." The President announced his intention to nominate Michelle Gavin to be Ambassador to the Republic of Botswana. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas M. Harrigan to be Deputy Administrator of Drug Enforcement at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Mara Rudman to be Assistant Administrator for the Middle East at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to appoint James Hamilton and Lisa Borin Ogden as members of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Inc. The President announced his intention to appoint Bob King as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Cappy McGarr as General Trustee of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Al Tarasiuk as Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community, Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The President announced that he has nominated Timothy M. Cain to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Scott W. Skavdahl to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming. February 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and Sens. Thomas R. Harkin, Michael B. Enzi, Jeff Bingaman, and Lamar Alexander to discuss the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley and Reps. Nancy Pelosi, Steny H. Hoyer, and James E. Clyburn. Later, in the Oval Office, he signed S. 118, designating the John M. Roll U.S. Courthouse in Yuma, AZ, with Sen. John McCain, Pia Carusonone, chief of staff to Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, and others in attendance. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, at a private residence, the President met with business leaders to discuss his commitment to new investments in research and development, education, and clean energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas M. Countryman to be Assistant Secretary for International Security and Nonproliferation at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Hybl and Anne Wedner to be members of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm, flooding, mudslides, landslides, and debris flows from January 13 through 21. February 18 In the morning, the President traveled to Portland, OR, where he toured an Intel Corporation semiconductor manufacturing facility and viewed student demonstrations by Intel Science Talent Search finalists. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon to discuss the situation in Bahrain. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain to discuss the situation in Bahrain. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from December 26 through 27. February 22 In the morning, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the death of four U.S. citizens held hostage by pirates off the coast of Somalia. Later, he traveled to Cleveland, OH. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Mayor-elect Rahm I. Emanuel of Chicago to congratulate him on his election victory. February 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at the National Naval Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and presented Purple Hearts to six servicemembers. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the earthquake in Christchurch, to offer U.S. assistance, and to discuss New Zealand-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa to discuss the ongoing investigation into the death of Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agent Jaime Zapata in Mexico on February 22. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Calderon to the White House on March 3. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia to the White House on March 7. The President announced his intention to nominate Carl Shapiro to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness: Stephen M. Case; Kenneth I. Chenault; John Doerr; Roger W. Ferguson, Jr.; Mark T. Gallogly; Joseph T. Hansen; Lewis Hay III; Gary Kelly; Ellen Kullman; A.G. Lafley; Monica C. Lozano; Darlene Miller; Paul S. Otellini; Richard D. Parsons; Antonio Perez; Penny S. Pritzker; Brian L. Roberts; Matt Rose; Sheryl Sandberg; Richard L. Trumka; Laura D. Tyson; and Robert Wolf. February 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy to discuss the situation in Libya. Then, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced his intention to appoint Thelma Duggin as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Cancer Advisory Board: Marcia Cruz-Correa; Kevin J. Cullen; Olufunmilayo F. Olopade; Jonathan M. Samet; and William Sellers. February 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Libya. Later, in Room 430 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President and Vice President Biden met with Democratic Governors. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. The President announced that he has named Jeremy Bernard as Special Assistant to the President and Social Secretary. February 26 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss global economic recovery and the situation in Libya.  February 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Permanent Representative to the U.N. Susan E. Rice met with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss the situations in Libya, Egypt, and Tunisia. The President announced the appointment of N. Gunter Guy, Jr., as State representative of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter A. Barrows to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board. The President announced his intention to nominate David V. Brewer to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. March 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner. Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on March 4. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, on March 8. March 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, the y met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced that he has nominated Nannette J. Brown to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Wilma A. Lewis to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the U.S. Virgin Islands. The President announced that he has nominated Nancy Torresen to be a judge for the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine. The President announced that he has nominated Felicia C. Adams to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi. The President announced that he has nominated Clayton D. Johnson to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Oklahoma. The President announced that he has nominated Alfred C. Lomax to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Charles F. Salina to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of New York. March 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Situation Room, they met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Later, in the Oval Office, they had an extended bilateral meeting with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a separate meeting with President Calderon of Mexico. Later, in the Old Family Dining Room, he had a working lunch with President Calderon. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with crewmembers of the Space Shuttle Discovery and the International Space Station. Later, in the Blue Room, he and Mrs. Obama taped a video address on bullying for later broadcast. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel L. Glaser to be Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Jon Leibowitz to be Commissioner and Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert E. Patterson to be Ambassador to Turkmenistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Piquado to be Assistant Secretary for the Import Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric S. Edelman to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace. The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a snowstorm from January 11 through 12. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Mayor-elect of Chicago Rahm I. Emanuel. He then met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL, where he, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, and former Governor Jeb Bush of Florida toured Miami Central Senior High School. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. March 7 In the morning, the President and Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia traveled to Arlington, VA. In the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Gillard returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and President Roza Otunbaeva of Kyrgyzstan. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will host the White House Conference on Bullying Prevention on March 10. The President declared a major disaster  in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 11 through 12. March 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Libya.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. Later, at TechBoston Academy, he participated in a roundtable discussion on governance with students from area colleges and universities. In the evening, at the Museum of Fine Arts, the President met with members of the National Basketball Association's Boston Celtics. Later, he retuned to Washington, DC. March 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Richard L. Eubank, national commander-in-chief, Veterans of Foreign Wars. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Deputy Associate Director of Public Engagement William Jawando, his wife Michele, and their daughter Alia. In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President hosted a viewing party for a game between the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls and Charlotte Bobcats. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen of Denmark to the White House on March 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Dereth B. Glance and Richard M. Moy to be Commissioners of the International Joint Commission at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Shapiro to be Ambassador to Israel. The President announced his intention to nominate Ben S. Bernanke to be U.S. Alternate Governor at the International Monetary Fund. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher B. Howard to be a member of the National Security Education Board. The President announced that he has nominated Ronald W. Sharpe to be U.S. attorney for the District of the Virgin Islands. The President announced that he has nominated Robert Mathieson to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Juan Mattos, Jr., to be U.S. marshal for the District of New Jersey. The President announced that he has nominated Stephen N. Six to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated William F. Kuntz II to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. March 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama met with Sirdeaner L. Walker, Kirk Smalley, other relatives of bullying victims, and antibullying advocates. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Members of Congress to discuss the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced his intention to nominate Ariel Pablos-Mendez to be Assistant Administrator for Global Health at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Science Board of the National Science Foundation: Dan Arvizu; Alan Leshner; and Bob Granger. The President announced his intention to appoint Frances Ulmer as Chair of the Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Leslie Fields and Roberta Ness as members of the Board of Directors of the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Management Advisory Board: Greg Brown; Sam Gilliland; Jeffrey B. Kindler; Debra L. Lee; Gail J. McGovern; Shantanu Narayen; Enrique Salem; Elizabeth A. Smith; Tim Solso; and Ronald A. Williams. March 11 In the morning, the President was notified by White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley on the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Later, in the Oval Office, he had a teleconference briefing with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and senior advisers on situation in Japan. Later in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland to congratulate him on assuming office and to discuss Ireland-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Madelyn R. Creedon to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Global Strategic Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan F. Estevez to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness. The President announced his intention to nominate Lewis A. Lukens to be Ambassador to Senegal and Guinea-Bissau. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Wohlers to be Ambassador to Macedonia. The President announced his intention to nominate Rear Adm. Jonathan W. Bailey, NOAA Corps, to be a Commissioner of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Maj. Gen. Michael J. Walsh, USA, to be President of the Mississippi River Commission. March 12 During the day, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on disaster response and relief efforts in Japan. In the evening, at the Renaissance Washington, DC, Downtown Hotel, the President made remarks at the annual Gridiron Club dinner. March 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, where he and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan toured Kenmore Middle School and viewed student presentations. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates and Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with the National Security Council to discuss efforts to apprehend Usama bin Laden, leader of the Al Qaida terrorist organization. In the evening, at the St. Regis Hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee event. March 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Map Room, the President participated in separate television interviews with Royale Da of KOAT in Albuquerque, NM, Jon Delano of KDKA in Pittsburgh, PA, and Regina Mobley of WVEC in Hampton Roads, VA, to discuss education reform. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the East Room, he met with Intel Science Talent Search student finalists. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at Arlington National Cemetery's Memorial Chapel, they paid respects to Frank W. Buckles, who was the last surviving veteran of World War I. They then returned to Washington, DC.  Later in the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President participated in an interview with Andy Katz of ESPN to discuss his picks for the NCAA men's basketball tournament. Then, in the Situation Room, he had a meeting with his National Security team to discuss the situation in Libya. Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Then, in the Cabinet Room, they met with combatant commanders. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a dinner for the combatant commanders and their spouses. March 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Rajiv J. Shah to discuss U.S. humanitarian assistance abroad. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, from the Treaty Room office in the White House Residence, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan to discuss ongoing relief efforts in Japan, including the emergency at the Fukushima nuclear power plant. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Geiger Lewis to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina. The President announced his intention to nominate Jane Margaret Triche-Milazzo to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. March 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland. In the afternoon, the President visited the Japanese Embassy to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the recent earthquake and tsunami. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the situation in Libya. The President announced his intention to nominate Gineen M. Bresso and Myrna Perez to be Commissioners of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Howorth to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Lisa Monaco to be Assistant Attorney General for National Security at the Department of Justice. The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 31 through February 3. March 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with a bipartisan group of Congressional leaders to discuss the situation in Libya. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Erik Moberg, a senior at Michigan State University who was enabled by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to continue coverage under his mother's health insurance plan. Later, in the Map Room, he participated in separate television interviews with Natalie Pasquarella of WSOC in Charlotte, NC, Lynn Martinez of WSVN in Miami, FL, and Jim Gardner of WPVI in Philadelphia, PA, to discuss his upcoming visit to Latin America. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Brasilia, Brazil. March 19 In the morning, while en route aboard Air Force One, the President was briefed by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon on the situation in Libya. Upon arrival in Brasilia, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Royal Tulip Brasilia Alvorada hotel. Later, at the hotel, he was briefed by National Security Adviser Donilon on the situation in Libya. He then had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates, to discuss the situation in Libya.  Later in the morning, at the hotel, the President joined a conference call briefing with his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. Then, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Palacio do Planalto, where they participated in an arrival ceremony with President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Palacio Itamaraty. Later, he traveled to the Brasil 21 Convention Center, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he traveled to the Palacio do Alvorada, where he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended a reception hosted by President Rousseff.  In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Upon arrival, they traveled to the JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro. March 20 In the morning, the President held a conference call briefing with his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. Then, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Cidade de Deus favela, where they attended cultural performances. Later, they returned to the JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Theatro Municipal. Later, he returned to the JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janerio. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Corcovado mountain, where they toured the Christ the Redeemer statue. Later, they returned to the JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro. March 21 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Santiago, Chile. While en route aboard Air Force One, he held a conference call briefing with his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. He then held a conference call briefing with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and other senior officials to discuss the disaster response and relief efforts in Japan. In the afternoon, while en route aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss the situations in Libya and Bahrain. He was then briefed by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon on the situation in Libya. Later in the afternoon, upon arrival in Santiago, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Palacio de La Moneda, where he and Mrs. Obama participated in an arrival ceremony with President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile and his wife Cecilia Morel de Pinera. Then, also at the Palacio de La Moneda, he met with President Pinera. Later, he traveled to the San Cristobal Tower hotel, where he and Mrs. Obama met with U.S. Embassy staff. In the evening, at the San Cristobal Tower hotel, the President was briefed by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon on a U.S. military plane that went down in Libya. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to the Palacio de La Moneda. Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to the San Cristobal Tower hotel. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Libya. He also had a telephone conversation with Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, on the U.S. military plane that went down in Libya. The White House announced that the President will travel to Ireland, the United Kingdom, France, and Poland from May 23 through 28. March 22 In the morning, at the San Cristobal Tower hotel, the President met with President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile. Then, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to San Salvador, El Salvador. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations his national security team, Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, and Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani of Qatar to discuss the situation in Libya. In the afternoon, upon arrival in San Salvador, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Palacio Nacional, where he and Mrs. Obama participated in an arrival ceremony with President Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena of El Salvador and his wife Vanda Pignato. Later, they traveled to the Sheraton Presidente San Salvador Hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the Metropolitan Cathedral, where he met with President Funes and Archbishop Jose Luis Escobar Alas of San Salvador, toured the church, and paid his respects at the tomb of Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero. He then returned to the Sheraton Presidente San Salvador Hotel. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Palacio Nacional. Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to the Sheraton Presidente San Salvador Hotel. March 23 In the morning, the President had a conference call briefing with his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. Then, he traveled to the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where he met with U.S. Embassy staff. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 31 through February 5. March 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss Russia-U.S. relations, the situations in the Middle East and Libya. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, he and Vice President Biden met with the national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to express his condolences for the loss of life and injures from the terrorist attack in Jerusalem on March 23 and to discuss recent rocket attacks and mortar fire into Israel from Gaza. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and extreme cold temperatures from February 1 through 5. March 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, in the in the Situation Room, he had a meeting with the National Security Council, Members of Congress, and other administration and military officials to discuss the situation in Libya. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President recorded a video message for the people of Cote d'Ivoire. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Georgious Andreas Papandreou of Greece to congratulate him on the 190th anniversary of Greek independence and to discuss the situation in Libya. He also had separate telephone conversations with President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile, and President Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena of El Salvador to thank them for hosting the First Family during their Latin America visit. The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a tsunami on March 11. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from January 11 through 21. March 26 The White House announced that the President will address the Nation on the situation in Libya on March 28. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on March 29. March 28 In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situations in Libya and Egypt. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with members of open-government advocacy groups and accepted an award in recognition for making the Federal Government more transparent by providing greater public access to Government information. March 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with the National Security Council to discuss efforts to apprehend Usama bin Laden, leader of the Al Qaida terrorist organization. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. Then, at the American Museum of Natural History, he participated in separate television interviews with Brian Williams of NBC Nightly News, Erica Hill of CBS's "The Early Show," and Diane Sawyer of ABC's "World News with Diane Sawyer," all for later broadcast. He then toured the museum's Milstein Hall of Ocean Life, where he, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, and Director of the NYC Science and Engineering Fair Jeanette Kim viewed research projects submitted to the New York City Science and Engineering Fair by local high school students. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan to discuss ongoing relief efforts in Japan. The President announced his intention to nominate Henry S. Ensher to be Ambassador to the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth J. Fairfax to be Ambassador to the Republic of Kazakhstan. The President announced his intention to nominate Deepa Gupta to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Nisha Desai Biswal as a member of the Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael C. Camunez as a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan H. Hildreth as a member of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center. The President announced his intention to appoint Gary Hirshberg as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Edwin Schlossberg as a member of the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Lesley Weiss as a member of the U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. March 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President met with the leadership of the Congressional Black Caucus to discuss the economic impact of proposed budget cuts. He then had a telephone conversation with President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy to congratulate him on the 150th anniversary of Italian unification and discuss Italy's contributions to the no-fly zone over Libya. March 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced that he has nominated George L. Beck to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Alabama. The President announced that he has nominated Corinne A. Beckwith to be an appellate judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated David L. McNulty to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Alison J. Nathan to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from February 28 through March 1. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Shimon Peres of Israel to the White House on April 5. April 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Landover, MD, where he toured a UPS shipping facility and viewed clean energy vehicles from the corporate fleets of AT&T, PepsiCo, UPS, and Verizon. He later returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan Princeton N. Lyman. April 2 During the day, the President had separate phone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to discuss the ongoing negotiations over legislation to continue Federal Government appropriations.  April 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Ali Ben Bongo Ondimba of Gabon to discuss the situation in Cote d'Ivoire.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to the White House on June 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Fairless Hills, PA, on April 6. April 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Situation Room, they had a meeting o the situation in Libya. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, and Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee Rep. Harold D. Rogers to discuss legislation to continue Federal Government appropriations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with President Shimon Peres of Israel. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with President Peres. Later, in the Oval Office, he had separate meetings with Millennium Challenge Corporation Chief Executive Officer Daniel W. Yohannes and Overseas Private Investment Corporation Chief Executive Officer Elizabeth L. Littlefield. The President announced his intention to nominate D. Brent Hardt to be Ambassador to Guyana. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald W. Koran to be Ambassador to Rwanda. The President announced his intention to nominate Geeta Pasi to be Ambassador to Djibouti. The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 31 through February 3. April 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to discuss legislation to continue Federal Government appropriations.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA. Upon arrival, he traveled to Fairless Hills, PA. Later, he traveled to New York City. During the day, the President had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss the transition of security operations to Afghan forces and recent violence related to an incident involving the desecration of the Koran. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden, had a meeting with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to discuss the ongoing negotiations over legislation to continue Federal Government appropriations. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia to the White House on April 7. The President announced that he has nominated Sharon L. Gleason to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Alaska. The President announced that he has nominated Susan O. Hickey to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Arkansas. April 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, they met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to discuss legislation to continue Federal Government appropriations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner.  In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to discuss legislation to continue Federal Government appropriations. The White House announced that the President has canceled his scheduled trip to Indianapolis, IN, on April 8. The President announced his intention to nominate David S. Johanson to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Sean R. Mulvaney to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia Chavez Lamar, Barbara J. Ells, and Deborah D. Goodman to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development.  The President announced his intention to nominate Anuj C. Desai as a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Wanda F. Felton to be First Vice President at the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate William C. Lineberger to be a member of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate James H. Thessin to be Ambassador to Paraguay. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on April 5 and continuing. April 8 The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy Massad to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to appoint Herbert Block and Gary P. Zola as members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. The President announced his intention to appoint Patrik Johansson and Ellen Semonoff as members of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to appoint Theresa Arevgaq John to be a member of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education at the Department of Education. The President declared a major disaster in Hawaii and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a tsunami on March 11. April 9 In the afternoon, the President met with tourists at the Lincoln Memorial, where he commended Congressional leaders for legislation approved to temporarily continue Federal Government appropriations. April 10 The White House announced that the President will welcome Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani of Qatar to the White House on April 14. April 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Situation Room, he had a meeting on the situation in Libya. April 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Alassane D. Ouattara of Cote d'Ivoire to congratulate him on assuming duties as a democratically elected leader and to discuss Cote d'Ivoire-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Office of Personnel Management Director John Berry. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with the National Security Council to discuss efforts to apprehend Usama bin Laden, leader of the Al Qaida terrorist organization. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had a meeting with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, followed by a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. April 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with bipartisan House and Senate leaders to discuss ongoing negotiations to continue Federal Government appropriations. April 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan D. Farrar to be Ambassador to the Republic of Nicaragua. The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart E. Jones to be Ambassador to Jordan. The President announced his intention to nominate Lisa J. Kubiske to be Ambassador to the Republic of Honduras. The President announced his intention to nominate Derek J. Mitchell to be U.S. Special Representative and Policy Coordinator for Burma, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert J. Zimmer to be a member of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate William C. Ostendorff to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. April 15 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with leadership of the National Conference of State Legislators. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Kiev, Ukraine, to attend the Summit on the Safe and Innovative Use of Nuclear Energy and the Chernobyl Pledging Conference to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster on April 19: Zbigniew Brzezinski (head of delegation); John F. Tefft; and Richard L. Morningstar. April 16 During the day, Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner briefed the President on the Standard & Poor's report on the U.S. debt outlook. The White House announced that the President will travel to Annandale, VA, on April 19. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco, CA, on April 20. April 17 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Beverly E. Perdue of North Carolina and Gov. Robert J. Bentley of Alabama to express his condolences on the loss of life because of the tornadoes that swept through the region on April 15 and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts. April 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President participated in separate interviews with Shaun Boyd of KCNC in Denver, CO, David Crabtree of WRAL in Raleigh, NC, Brad Watson of WFAA in Dallas, TX, and John Stehr of WTHR in Indianapolis, IN, to discuss the national debt and deficit. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to wish him well before the start of Passover and to discuss ongoing counterterrorism cooperation, the Middle East peace process, recent violence near Gaza, and Israel-U.S. relations. He also had a telephone conversation with Michael Hollowell, manager of a Lowe's home improvement store in Sanford, NC, that was devastated a tornado on April 16, to thank him for the swift action he took to save lives. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Seder to mark the beginning of Passover. The White House announced that the President will travel to Reno, NV, on April 21. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal of Panama to the White House on April 28. The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a tsunami on March 11. April 19 In the morning, the President traveled to Annandale, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, the President met with the National Security Council to discuss efforts to apprehend Usama bin Laden, leader of the Al Qaida terrorist organization. Later, in the State Dining Room, the President met with a bipartisan group of leaders from various fields to discuss immigration reform and border security. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on April 21. The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on April 16. April 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Palo Alto, CA. Later, he returned to San Francisco. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Libya. April 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Reno, NV. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. He then traveled to Culver City, CA. Later, he returned to Los Angeles. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan Athey as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint W. Terrell Hodges as a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert G. Stanton as a member of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center. The President announced his intention to appoint E. William Stetson III as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Brady J. Deaton as Chairman of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint David Blitzstein and Joyce A. Mader as members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development: Gebisa Ejeta; Jo Luck; and Marty McVey. April 22 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. The White House announced that the President will welcome Crown Prince Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to the White House on April 26. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and straight-line winds on April 14. April 24 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended an Easter service at Shiloh Baptist Church. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to the White House. April 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, on the South Lawn, the President participated in White House Easter egg roll activities. Then, at the White House basketball and tennis courts, he played basketball and tennis with children and visited with them and their parents. Later in the morning, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversation with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situations in Libya and Syria. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. April 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, in the Map Room, the President participated in separate television interviews with Justin Farmer of WSB in Atlanta, GA, Romona Robinson of WKYC in Cleveland, OH, Barbara Ciara of WTKR in Norfolk, VA, and Stephen Clark of WXYZ of Detroit, MI, to discuss the national debt and deficit. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Crown Prince Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Special Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Senior Director for Resilience Policy Richard A. Reed. He then had a telephone conversation with Gov. Michael D. Beebe of Arkansas to discuss tornado damage relief efforts. April 27 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Chicago, IL. Upon arrival in the afternoon, they participated in the taping of an interview with Oprah Winfrey for the "Oprah Winfrey Show." In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Florida on April 29. The President announced his intention to appoint Judy Gaynor and Richard P. Herman as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.  The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Langer as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Wendy Wanderman as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas E. Wheeler as a member of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and straight-line winds beginning on April 27 and continuing. April 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate on the Federal Government's disaster relief and response efforts to severe weather affecting States in the Southeast. Later in the morning, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and senior administration officials met with influential members of the Hispanic community to discuss immigration reform. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with the National Security Council to discuss efforts to apprehend Usama bin Laden, leader of the Al Qaida terrorist organization. The White House announced that the President's ceremony honoring the 2010 NCAA Football Champion Auburn University Tigers and the "Let's Move!" initiative's South Lawn youth football clinic has been postponed. The White House announced that the President will travel to Alabama on April 29. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning on April 15 and continuing. April 29 In the morning, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President met with participants of the 1968 Memphis sanitation strike. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Tuscaloosa, AL. Upon arrival, he and Mrs. Obama toured the damage caused by recent tornadoes. Also in the morning, the President gave orders to proceed with a U.S. Navy SEALs counterterrorism operation to raid the suspected compound of Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden in Abbottabad, Pakistan.  In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Cape Canaveral, FL, where they toured the Orbiter Processing Facility and viewed the Space Shuttle Atlantis. Then, the President visited the Launch Control Center and met with crewmembers of the Space Shuttle Endeavor. Later, the President and Mrs. Obama met with Representative Gabrielle D. Giffords, wife of Space Shuttle Endeavor commander Mark E. Kelly. The President then traveled to Miami, FL. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 15 through 28. The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 27 through 28. April 30 In the afternoon, from the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain to the situation in Bahrain and President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan to discuss Kazakhstan-U.S. relations.  May 1 In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President, Vice President Joe Biden, and their national security team were updated on the U.S. Navy SEALs counterterrorism operation in Abbottabad, Pakistan, to apprehend Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with former Presidents William J. Clinton and George W. Bush and President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan to discuss the U.S. Navy SEALs counterterrorism operation in Abbottabad that resulted in the death of Usama bin Laden. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and associated flooding from April 25 through 28. May 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also from the Oval Office, he had separate telephone conversations with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico, Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile, President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the death of Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden.  The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and associated flooding beginning on April 23 and continuing. May 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden received an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President held a Cabinet meeting. Then, in the State Dining Room, he met with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to congratulate him on his electoral victory and to discuss the death of Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden. The President announced his intention to nominate Tony D'Agostino to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Janice Eberly to be Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy at the Department of the Treasury. May 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden received an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he participated in an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" for later broadcast. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with  Charles, Prince of Wales of the United Kingdom. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to the White House on May 20. The White House announced that the President will travel to Fort Campbell, KY, on May 6. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura A. Cordero to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara K. McQuiston to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew H. Tueller to be Ambassador to Kuwait. The President announced that he has nominated Christopher Droney to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Dana L. Christensen to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Montana. The President announced that he has nominated John M. Gerrard to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska. The President announced that he has nominated Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Robert N. Scola, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Katherine B. Forrest and Edgardo Ramos to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Dennis J. Erby to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi. The President announced that he has nominated Edward M. Spooner to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Florida. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on April 22 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on April 26 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on April 27 and continuing. May 5 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, at Engine Company 54, Ladder Company 4, and Battalion 9 firehouse, the President participated in an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" for later broadcast. He then traveled to the New York Police Department's First Precinct Station. Later, he traveled to the National September 11 Memorial and Museum, where he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. Then he traveled to the museum's 9/11 Memorial Preview Site, where he met with the family members of victims of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Texas on May 10. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen Higginson to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael H. Corbin to be Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey DeLaurentis to be Alternate Representative of the U.S. for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeanine E. Jackson to be Ambassador to Malawai. The President announced his intention to nominate William H. Moser to be Ambassador to Moldova. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and straight-line winds from April 9 through 10. May 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Indianapolis, IN. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia to discuss the death of Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden. Upon arrival, he traveled Allison Transmission, Inc., where he toured the facilities. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fort Campbell, KY. Upon arrival, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with the special operations teams who participated in the operation to apprehend Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden and presented them with the Presidential Unit Citation in recognition of their achievement. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Amir Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah of Kuwait to express his condolences on the death of the Amir's brother, Sheikh Khalid al-Sabah. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on April 25 and continuing. May 7 The White House announced that the President will travel to El Paso, TX and Austin, TX, on May 10. May 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to discuss the death of Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden and India-U.S. relations.. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later,  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the crewmembers of Space Shuttle Discovery. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with the cochairs of the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Abdullah II of Jordan to the White House on May 17. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds on April 4. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning on April 19 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on April 19 and continuing. May 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to El Paso, TX. In the afternoon, the President traveled to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection cargo inspection facility near the Bridge of the Americas, where, with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Alan D. Bersin, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection El Paso Field Operations Director Ana Hinojosa, he toured the facility. He then traveled to Chamizal National Memorial. Later, he traveled to Austin, TX. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Asuncion, Paraguay, to celebrate the bicentennial of the independence of Paraguay on May 14: Aaron S. Williams (head of delegation); Liliana Ayalde; and Arturo A. Valenzuela. The President announced his intention to appoint James T. Brett as Chair of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities: Peter V. Berns; Clay Boatright; Micki Edelsohn; Ann Hardiman; Alison A. Hillman de Velasquez; Carl M. La Mell; Annette McKenzie Anderson; Carol Quirk; Susana Ramirez; Deborah M. Spitalnik; Lillian Sugarman; Elizabeth Weintraub; Carol Wheeler; and Sheryl White-Scott. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on February 14 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 16 and continuing. May 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President a meeting with his senior advisers. He then traveled to the Newseum. Later, he returned to the White House complex, where, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with the Senate Democratic Caucus. The, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting of the President's Committee on Arts and Humanities. The White House announced that the President will welcome North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen to the White House on May 13. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Haiti to attend the inauguration of President-elect Michel Martelly of Haiti on May 14: William J. Clinton (head of delegation); Kenneth H. Merten; and Thomas C. Adams. The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Burns to be Deputy Secretary of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Acton and Robert G. Taub to be Commissioners of the Postal Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark P. Wetjen to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Richard G. Andrews to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The President announced that he has nominated Cathy Ann Bencivengo to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Jeffrey J. Helmick to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on May 3 and continuing. May 12 In the morning, the President traveled to the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium. Later, he returned to the White House complex, where, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with the Senate Republican Caucus. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with the Congressional Black Caucus. Then, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he participated in an interview with Jose Diaz-Balart of Telemundo. Then, in the Library, he participated in separate interviews with Adriana Arevalo of KINC in Las Vegas, NV, Mario Andres Moreno of WLTV in Miami, FL, and Norma Garcia of KXTX in Dallas, TX. May 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President delivered remarks to White House staff in honor of the 50th anniversary of the White House Situation Room. He also presided over a ceremony to name a secure conference room after President John F. Kennedy. The President announced his intention to nominate Terry D. Garcia to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Dan W. Mozena to be Ambassador to Bangladesh. The President announced his intention to nominate Frankie A. Reed to be Ambassador to the Fiji Islands, Nauru, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Kiribati. The President announced his intention to appoint Brad Barber and James F. Karpowitz as members of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Richard Binder and Judith S. Palfrey as members of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health. The President announced his intention to appoint Sandy Hoa Dang and Isaac F. Silvera as members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Alan H. Fleischmann as a member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Richard H. Weisberg as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 31 through February 5. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on March 11 and continuing. May 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Memphis, TN, where, at the Cook Convention Center, he met with State and local officials, volunteers, and families impacted by recent flooding. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. May 18 In the morning, the President traveled to New London, CT. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate David S. Adams to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Luis A. Aguilar and Daniel M. Gallagher to be Commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation: Marcos E. Galindo; Charles R. Korsmo; Maria E. Ruess; and John H. Yopp. The President announced his intention to nominate John A. Heffern to be Ambassador to Armenia. The President announced his intention to nominate Harry R. Hoglander to be a member of the National Mediation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory Karawan to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Industry Investor Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia M. Loui to be a member of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan L. Ziadeh to be Ambassador to Qatar. The President announced his intention to nominate Constance S. Barker to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Morgan Christen to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. May 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Room, the President participated in the taping of an interview with Andrew Marr of the BBC's "The Andrew Marr Show" for later broadcast. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Cote d'Ivoire to attend the inauguration of President-elect Alassane D. Ouattara of Cote d'Ivoire on May 21: Brooke D. Anderson (head of delegation); and Julia Stanley. The President announced that he has nominated Andrew L. Carter, Jr. to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated James R. Gilstrap to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Gina M. Groh to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia.  May 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.   In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel had a working lunch. Then, he met with 2010 Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching award winners. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Massarone to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Joyce A. Barr to be Assistant Secretary of State for Administration at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne W. Patterson to be Ambassador to Egypt. The President announced his intention to nominate Claude M. Steele to be a member of the National Science Board  at the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Dottie Bennett to be a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. The President announced his intention to appoint Catherine A. Bertini to be a member of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint L. Tammy Duckworth and Jodi A. Gillette to be members of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center. The President announced his intention to appoint Debra Langford to be a member of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Inc. The President announced his intention to appoint Mathew McCollough and Deborah Ryan to be members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Ronald B. Rapoport to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from April 29 through May 1. The President declared a major disaster in Idaho and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding, landslides, and mudslides from March 31 through April 11. May 22 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Dublin, Ireland, arriving the following morning. While en route aboard Air Force One, he was briefed on severe storms and tornadoes affecting the Midwest. May 23 In the morning, upon arrival at Dublin Airport, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Aras an Uachtarain, the residence of President Mary P. McAleese of Ireland, where they signed the guest book in the State Reception Room. Then, they participated in a tree planting ceremony in the residence garden.  Later in the morning, the President traveled to Farmleigh, Ireland, where he met with Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland. He then returned to Dublin. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Jeremiah W. "Jay" Nixon of Missouri to express his condolences for the loss of life and destruction by severe storms and tornadoes affecting the Midwest. Later, he and Mrs. Obama visited with U.S. Embassy staff. They then traveled to Moneygall, Ireland, where they toured the President's ancestral home and visited a local pub. Later, they returned to Dublin. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama attended a dinner at the residence of U.S. Ambassador to Ireland Daniel M. Rooney. Later, they traveled to London, England. Upon arrival, they traveled to Winfield House, the residence of U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom Louis B. Susman. May 24 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Jeremiah W. "Jay" Nixon of Missouri and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate to discuss tornado damage relief efforts. Later, he and Mrs. Obama met with Prince Charles, Prince of Wales and his wife Duchess Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, of the United Kingdom. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Buckingham Palace, where they toured palace suites and met with Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and his wife Duchess Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, of the United Kingdom. They then participated in an arrival ceremony with Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom. Later, they had lunch with the Queen and her husband Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, of the United Kingdom. Following lunch, they toured the palace portrait gallery, where they viewed royal collection pieces related to America. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama visited Westminster Abbey, where they participated in a wreath laying ceremony at the Grave of the Unknown Warrior. Following the ceremony, they toured the Abbey and signed the guest book. They then traveled to the Prime Minister's residence at 10 Downing Street, where they participated in a photo opportunity with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and wife Samantha G. Cameron.  Later in the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Cameron visited the Globe Academy, where they toured a classroom and met with students. They then played table tennis with students in the school's gym.  In the evening, at Buckingham Palace, the President met with Labour Party Leader and Leader of the Opposition Edward S. Miliband. Later, also at Buckingham Palace, he and Mrs. Obama attended a dinner hosted by Queen Elizabeth II. The President announced his intention to nominate Ron McCray to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Arnold F. Stancell to be a member of the National Science Board of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen Kerrigan and Albert Lauber to be judges on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee: Matt Desch; Joseph E. Fergus; and Larissa Herda. May 25 In the morning, the President traveled to the Prime Minister's residence at 10 Downing Street, where he had meetings with Prime Minister David Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister Nicholas Clegg of the United Kingdom. Later, in the garden at 10 Downing Street, he President and Prime Minister Cameron attended a barbeque hosted by Mrs. Obama and Mrs. Cameron honoring U.S. and U.K. military servicemembers, military families, and veterans. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Lancaster House. He then returned to Buckingham Palace. Later, he traveled to Westminster Palace. In the evening, the President traveled to the Grosvenor House Hotel, where he attended an event with U.S. Embassy staff. He then returned to Buckingham Palace. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Winfield House, where they hosted a dinner honoring Queen Elizabeth II and her husband Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. They then returned to Buckingham Palace. The White House announced that the President will travel to Raleigh-Durham, NC, on June 13. May 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Deauville, France. Upon arrival at Deauville-Saint-Gatien Airport, he traveled to the Royal Barriere hotel. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Villa La Cercle, where he was greeted by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. He then attended the Group of Eight (G8) summit working lunch. Later in the afternoon, at the Centre International de Deauville, the President participated in a G8 summit working session with G8 leaders. Then, he met with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss border security and economic competitiveness as well as progress through the U.S.-Canada Regulatory Cooperation Council. Later, he participated in a G8 summit working session on the Internet and the economy with Eric E. Schmidt, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Google, Inc.; Mark E. Zuckerberg, founder and chief executive officer of Facebook; Yuri B. Milner, founder of Digital Sky Technologies; Hiroshi Mikitani, chief executive officer of Rakuten, Inc.; Maurice Levy, chief executive officer of Publicis;, and Stephane Richard, chairman and chief executive officer of France TelecomOrange. He then returned to the Royal Barriere hotel. In the evening, the President attended the G8 summit working dinner. The President announced the designation of a Presidential delegation to Nigeria, to attend the inauguration of President-elect Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria.on May 29: Johnnie Carson (head of delegation); and Terence P. McCulley. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics: Alicia Abella; Sylvia Acevedo; Alfredo J. Artiles; Daniel J. Cardinali; Francisco G. Cigarroa; Cesar Conde; Luis Ricardo Fraga; JoAnn Gama; Patricia Gandara; Maria Neira; Lisette Nieves; Darline P. Robles; Ricardo Romo; Manny Sanchez; and Marta Tienda. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee: Scott Charney; Dick Costolo; David G. DeWalt; Jamie Dos Santos; and Lisa Hook. The President announced his intention to appoint John D. Goldman as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. May 27 In the morning, at the Centre International de Deauville, the President participated in a Group of Eight (G8) summit working session with G8 leaders. Then, he participated in a G8 summit working session on Egypt and Tunisia with G8 leaders, members of the European Union, Prime Minister Essam Abdel Aziz Sharaf of Egypt, Prime Minister Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia, Secretary-General Amr Mohammed Moussa of the Arab League, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations, Jon Lipsky of the International Monetary Fund, and Robert B. Zoellick of the World Bank. Later, he participated in a G8 summit working session on Africa with G8 leaders, members of the European Union, and the leaders of the African Union, Algeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, Cote d'Ivoire, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa, the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations, and the World Bank. Following the meeting, the President had a brief discussion with Prime Minister Sharaf of Egypt to discuss democracy efforts in Egypt. In the afternoon, the President participated in a G8 summit photograph. He then attended the G8 summit working lunch. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Paris, France. He then traveled to Warsaw, Poland, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President visited the Tomb of the Unknown Solider and the Monument to the Heroes of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, where he participated in separate wreath laying ceremonies. He then traveled to the Presidential Palace, where he and President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland hosted a dinner for central and eastern European leaders. Later, he traveled to the Marriot Warsaw hotel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Joplin, MO, on May 29. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from April 21 through 28. May 28 In the morning, at the Marriott Warsaw hotel, the President met with U.S. Embassy staff. Later, at the Presidential Palace, he participated in an arrival ceremony with President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland.  In the afternoon, at the Chancellery Building, the President participated in an arrival ceremony with Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland, followed by a working lunch. Later, at the Field Cathedral of the Polish Army, he visited the memorial to the victims of the 2010 Smolensk plane crash. Later, he traveled to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. May 29 In the morning, the President traveled to Joplin, MO, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. May 30 In the morning, in the State Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a breakfast for Gold Star families. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with his senior advisers. June 1 In the morning, in the East Room, the President met with the House Republican Conference. Later, in the Situation Room, he participated in a briefing on the forecast for the 2011 hurricane season given by Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration Administrator Jane Lubchenco, and National Hurricane Center Director William L. Read. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The White House announced that the President will travel to Toledo, OH, on June 3. June 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, in the East Room, het met with the House Democratic Caucus.  The President announced his intention to appoint Kathryn Ruemmler as White House Counsel. June 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Toledo, OH. In the afternoon, at Rudys Hot Dog, the President had lunch with Mayor Michael P. Bell of Toledo, OH. Then, he toured the facilities of the Chrysler Toledo Assembly Complex. Later, he visited to Fred's Pro Hardware. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.  June 4 The White House announced that the President will welcome President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria to the White House on June 8. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ali Ben Bongo Ondimba of Gabon to the White House on June 9. June 5 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for the Ford's Theatre. June 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Situation Room, they met with the national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Secretary of War Suite of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President participated in separate interviews with Kate Amara of Hearst Television news bureau in Washington, DC, Leon Bibb of WEWS in Cleveland, OH, and Devin Scillian of WDIV in Detroit, MI, about the automobile industry. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President dropped by a meeting of young adults chosen from participants in the White House's 100 Youth Roundtables Initiative. In the evening, at 1789 Restaurant, the President had dinner with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. The White House announced that the President will travel to Alexandria, VA, on June 8. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from May 22 through 25. June 7 In the morning, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in an arrival ceremony for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Chancellor Merkel. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he held an expanded meeting with Chancellor Merkel. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted Chancellor Merkel and her husband Joachim Sauer upon their arrival for a state dinner and reception. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photo opportunity with Chancellor Merkel and Mr. Sauer. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain to discuss Bahrain-U.S. relations and the situation in Bahrain. The President announced his intention to nominate Azizah al-Hibri to be a member of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy Brooks Gilbert, Deborah E. Lipstadt, and Marc R. Stanley to be members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Gorenberg to be a member of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. The President announced his intention to nominate Michelle J. Howard to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy. The President announced his intention to nominate Isaac N. "Ike" Skelton, IV to be a member of the American Battle Monuments Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Tamara Toussaint to be a member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter Schaumber to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation. The President announced that he has nominated Margo K. Brodie to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Jesse M. Furman to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Susie Morgan to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Mary E. Phillips to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri. The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms from April 19 through May 2 and flooding resulting from those storms beginning April 19 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes from May 21 through 22. June 8 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss the impact of the death of Al Qaida terrorist organization leader Usama bin Laden on counterterrorism efforts and the transition of security operations to Afghan forces. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Northern Virginia Community College in Alexandria, VA, where he toured the college's Automotive Training Program facility. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria to discuss Nigeria-U.S. relations and the situations in Sudan, Libya, and Cote d'Ivoire. During the day, in Room 430 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President dropped a meeting of writers from various personal finance and financial news web sites. The President announced his intention to nominate Arnold A. Chacon to be Ambassador to Guatemala. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher Merrill to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl A. Wayne to be Ambassador to Mexico. The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca R. Wodder to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to appoint Giselle Fernandez as a member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. June 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with President Ali Ben Bongo Ondimba of Gabon to discuss Gabon-U.S. relations and the situations in Sudan, Libya, and Cote d'Ivoire. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Janice K. Brewer of Arizona to discuss the wildfires in Arizona. The White House announced that the President will visit Durham, NC, on June 13. June 10 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Camp David, MD. The White House announced that the President will visit Miami, FL, on June 13. The White House announced that the President will visit San Juan, Puerto Rico, on June 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Martin J. Gruenberg to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth J. Kopocis to be Assistant Administrator for the Office of Water at the Environment Protection Agency. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds from April 26 through May 8. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by an ice jam and flooding from May 8 through 13. June12 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Raleigh-Durham International Airport in Morrisville, NC. He then traveled to Cree, Inc., in Durham, NC, where he toured the facility. Later, also at Cree, Inc., he participated in an interview with Ann Curry of NBC's "Today" show. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami International Airport in Miami, FL. He then traveled to Miami Beach, FL. In the evening, the President returned to Miami, FL. June 14 In the morning, the President traveled to San Juan, Puerto Rico. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to congratulate him on his party's victory in parliamentary elections and discuss Turkey-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, the President visited La Fortaleza, the Governor's mansion, where he took a tour and attended a youth orchestra concert. Later, at Kasalta restaurant, he had lunch with Commonwealth Sen. Alejandro Garcia Padilla of Puerto Rico. He then traveled to the Caribe Hilton, where he participated in separate interviews with El Nuevo Dia and Univision of Puerto Rico. Then, also at the Caribe Hilton, he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden attended an economic briefing. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from April 23 through May 9. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on June 1. June 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with President Tsakhia Elbegdorj of Mongolia to discuss Mongolia-U.S. relations. During the day, in the Library, the President participated in an interview with Robin Roberts of ABC's "Good Morning America." He also met with U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan Princeton N. Lyman to discuss the situation in Sudan. June 17 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Then he traveled to Walter Reed Army Medical Center, where he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and presented Purple Hearts to two servicemembers. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to the White House, where, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, in the Grand Foyer, he attended a reception for members of the Young Elected Officials Network from across the country. During the day, the President called Richard P. Carlisle, head coach of the National Basketball Association's Dallas Mavericks, to congratulate him and his team on winning the NBA Finals. The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms on April 3, 8, 22, 26, and 30, on May 9 and 10, 18 through 21, and 30, and flooding resulting from those storms on April 4 and continuing. June 18 In the morning, the President, traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he played a round of golf with Vice President Joe Biden, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio on the facility's east course. Later, at the facility's clubhouse, they had beverages, watched U.S. Open golf coverage, and met with U.S. military personnel. In the afternoon, the President returned to the Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on June 17 and continuing. June 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the Middle East and the situations in Libya and Syria. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden met with Mayors David Bing of Detroit, MI; Mick Cornett of Oklahoma City, OK; John H. "Buddy" Dyer of Orlando, FL; Anthony R. Foxx of Charlotte, NC; Sylvester "Sly" James, Jr., of Kansas City, MO; Kevin M. Johnson of Sacramento, CA; Elizabeth Kautz of Burnsville, MN; Michael A. Nutter of Philadelphia, PA; Jean Quan of Oakland, CA; Kasim Reed of Atlanta, GA; Joseph P. Riley, Jr., of Charleston, SC; Raymond T. Rybak, Jr., of Minneapolis, MN; Scott Smith of Mesa, AZ; and Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, CA, to discuss the national economy and job creation efforts. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Lois Curtis, one of the original plaintiffs of the Olmstead case, which reaffirmed the rights of Americans with disabilities to live independently. In the evening, the President traveled to the Mandarin Oriental Hotel. Later, he returned to the White House. June 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Ollanta Moises Humala Tasso of Peru to congratulate him on his June 5 election victory and to discuss Peru-U.S. relations. He then had separate meetings with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on June 23. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian T. Baenig to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Margaret Bartley and Gloria Wilson Shelton to be judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Beth Leonard to be Ambassador to the Republic of Mali. The President announced his intention to appoint Christopher Che as a member of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. The President announced his intention to appoint Linda K. Kerber as a member of the Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise. The President announced his intention to appoint Trina Thompson as a member of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. June 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan, Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to discuss the progress in Afghanistan. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Endowment for Democracy's 2011 Democracy Award recipients Jamel Bettaieb and Zahraa Said. Later, in the Grand Foyer, he attended a reception celebrating Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. The President announced his designation of the following individuals as members of the Presidential delegation to attend the Special Olympics World Summer Games in Athens, Greece: Jill Biden (head of delegation); Bart W. Conner; Kareem Dale; Micki Edelsohn; Kenneth Melvin; Daniel B. Smith; and Ann Stock. June 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with House of Representatives Democratic leadership. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Serzh Sargsian of Armenia and President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan to discuss the upcoming summit on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. He then traveled to Fort Drum, NY. Later, in the Rapid Deployment Facility, he met with Gold Star families.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, arriving in the evening. Later in the evening, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA. The President announced that he has nominated Jennifer G. Zipps and Rosemary Marquez to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has nominated Steven R. Frank to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated Martin J. Pane to be U.S. marshal for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated David B. Webb to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning on April 19 and continuing. June 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Carnegie Mellon University, where he toured the National Robotics Engineering Center. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Sung Y. Kim to be Ambassador to South Korea. The President announced his intention to nominate Adrienne S. O'Neal to be Ambassador to the Republic of Cape Verde. The President announced his intention to nominate S. Roy Woodall, Jr., to be a member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Hyman Bass as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Patty Gerstenblith as Chairman and Nancy C. Wilkie as a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as Commissioners on the Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean: Sean C. Martin; Russell F. Smith III; and Marija Vojkovich. The President announced his intention to appoint Patrick J. Murphy as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy.   The White House announced that the President will travel to Iowa on June 28. June 26 The President declared an emergency in Kansas  on June 25 and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on June 1 and continuing. June 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota about the impact of recent flooding and recovery efforts. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had a meeting with Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell. The White House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, on June 30. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on May 25 and continuing. June 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, he traveled to Moline, IL. Upon arrival, he traveled to Bettendorf, IA. In the afternoon, the President visited Ross' Restaurant. He then toured the facilities of Alcoa Davenport Works. Later, he traveled to Moline, IL. He then returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Germany to attend the Women's World Cup game on July 2: Nancy-Ann DeParle (head of delegation); Philip D. Murphy; and Kristine Lilly Heavey. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah A.P. Hersman to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas C. Krajeski to be Ambassador to Bahrain. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Mandell to be Ambassador to Luxembourg. The President announced his intention to appoint Hal Simpson to be U.S. Representative to the Rio Grande Compact Commission. The President announced that he has nominated J. Malcolm Bales to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Kenneth Magidson to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Robert L. Pitman to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Sarah R. Saldana to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Texas. June 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Sens. Richard J. Durbin, Charles E. Schumer, and Patricia L. Murray to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a farewell dinner for outgoing Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced that he has nominated Gregory K. Davis to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi. The President announced that he has nominated David O. Nuffer to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. The President announced that he has nominated Thomas O. Rice to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Washington. June 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA, where he visited John's Water Ice. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared an emergency in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on June 1 and continuing. July 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas J. Curry to be Comptroller of the Currency at the Department of Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary John Miller to be Under Secretary for Domestic Finance at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Wendy R. Sherman to be Under Secretary for Political Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew Olsen to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center. The President announced his intention to appoint Rafael Anchia to be a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Carmen Lucca Nazario to be U.S. Representative on the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by wildfires from April 6 through May 3. July 3 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. July 4 In the evening, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a barbecue and concert for military personnel and their families. Later, they watched the Independence Day fireworks display on the National Mall from the White House. July 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Ryan C. Crocker and Lt. Gen. John R. Allen, USMC, commander-designate, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The President announced his intention to nominate Matan Koch and Stephanie Orlando to be members of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics: Denis J. Cruz; Millie Garcia; Monica R. Martinez; and Veronica E. Melvin. The President announced his intention to appoint B. Sue Fulton as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint Tom Healy as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Warren G. Hioki as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Marc Lefar as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. July 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President stopped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and President-elect Ollanta Moises Humala  Tasso of Peru. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to South Sudan to attend a ceremony marking the declaration of the independence of South Sudan on July 9: Susan E. Rice (head of delegation); Donald M. Payne; Colin L. Powell; Johnnie Carson; Princeton N. Lyman; Brooke D. Anderson; Donald K. Steinberg; Carter F. Ham; R. Barrie Walkley; and Kenneth F. Hackett. July 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden met with congressional leaders to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand to the White House on July 22. July 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. Later, in the outer Oval Office, he watched the launch of Space Shuttle Atlantis. Then, in the Map Room, he participated in separate interviews with Kent Wainscott of WISN in Milwaukee, WI, Mike Clark of WTAE in Pittsburgh, PA, Jean Enersen of KING in Seattle, WA, and Larry Stogner of WTVD in Raleigh-Durham, NC, to discuss the national economy and deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Hammer to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles McConnell to be Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph H. Gale to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to appoint Terry Guen and Dorothy T. Lippert as members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Rosemary A. Joyce as a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from May 24 through 26. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from May 26 through 27. July 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. July 10 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.  In the evening, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with congressional leaders to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. July 11 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Cabinet Room, they met with congressional leaders to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. Later, in the South Court Auditorium, he made remarks at the closing session of the Hispanic Policy Conference. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss the situations in Libya, Sudan, and Afghanistan and to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the sinking of the MS Bulgaria. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary B. DeRosa, Frank E. Loy, and Kendrick B. Meek as U.S. Representatives to the 66th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council: Jack Baylis, David J. Grain, Donald R. Knauss, Constance H. Lau, and Beverly A. Scott. The President announced that he has nominated Danya A. Dayson, Peter A. Krauthamer, and John F. McCabe, Jr. to be associate judges on the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. July 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with congressional leaders to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations.  July 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia.  Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with congressional leaders to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations.  The President declared a major disaster in Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe storms from April 4 through May 15.  The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe storms from April 25 through 28.  July 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President participated in separate television interviews with Natalie Pasquarella of WSOCTV in Charlotte, NC, Jim Vance of WRCTV in Washington, DC, and Scott Pelley of KYWTV in Philadelphia. Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, in the Cabinet Room, they met with congressional leaders to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. The President announced his intention to nominate David A. Montoya to be Inspector General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Chester J. Culver and Bruce J. Sherrick to be a members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Roland Garcia to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint Timothy Johns to be a Commissioner of the Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. The President declared a major disaster in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides from May 20 through June 8. July 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with crewmembers of the Space Shuttle Atlantis and the International Space Station. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Ruby Bridges Hall and representatives of the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, MA, to view and discuss Rockwell's painting, "The Problem We All Live With," which will be displayed in the White House through October 31. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Germany to attend the Women's World Cup final game on July 17: Jill Biden (head of delegation); Philip D. Murphy; and Chelsea Clinton.  July 16 In the morning, in the Map Room, the President met with Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama. July 17 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended a church service at St. John's Episcopal Church.  In the afternoon, in the Treaty Room, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia watched the U.S. versus Japan Women's World Cup soccer game. During the day, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Rep. Eric Cantor to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. July 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, in the State Dining Room, the President met with members of the philanthropic project, "The Giving Pledge," including cofounder Warren E. Buffett and Melinda F. and William H. Gates III. In the afternoon, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President hosted a roundtable discussion on education with business leaders, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett, White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes, America's Promise Alliance Chair Alma J. Powell, and former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President held a roundtable discussion on financial reform, including the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. July 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss economic stabilization efforts in Europe, the global financial markets, and Germany's successful hosting of the Women's World Cup soccer games. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Gen. John R. Allen, USMC, to congratulate him on his promotion to the rank of four-star general and his assumption of command of the NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. The White House announced that the President will travel to College Park, MD, on July 22. The President announced his intention to nominate Maureen K. Ohlhausen to be  a commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Roslyn A. Mazer to be Inspector General at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Gabriel Guerra-Mondragon as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Dallin Jensen as a member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission. July 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President participated in separate interviews with Lara Moritz of KMBC in Kansas City, MO, David Ono of KABC in Los Angeles, CA, and Jerry Revish of WBNS in Columbus, OH, to discuss the national economy and deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. Later, he met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Sen. Richard J. Durbin, and Reps. Nancy Pelosi and Steny H. Hoyer to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. In the evening, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Rep. Eric Cantor to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. The President announced that he has nominated Michael W. Fitzgerald to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding from June 18 through 24. July 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President participated in separate telephone interviews for the radio shows of Ricardo Brown, Isabel Gomez-Bassols, Steve Harvey, and Michel Martin. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Gen. James E. "Hoss" Cartwright, USMC, Vice Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff. He then met with Marc H. Morial, president, National Urban League, and Benjamin T. Jealous, president, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Later, also in the Oval office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the evening, the President met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,, Sen. Richard J. Durbin, and Reps. Nancy Pelosi and Steny H. Hoyer. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry W. Walther to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate James T. Ryan to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences. The President announced his intention to appoint Abbey Johnston as a member of the Medal of Valor Review Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Sharon Long as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Alapaki Nahale-a and Jeanne Unemori Skog as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Errol R. Schwartz as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. July 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to College Park, MD.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta and Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with former U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry and his wife Ching. The President announced his intention to appoint Sue Clark, Rod Ewing, and Linda Nozick as members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from May 26 through 30. The President declared a major disaster in Wyoming and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and landslides from May 18 through July 8. July 23 In the morning, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Congressional leaders, including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of Norway to express his condolences on the terrorist attacks in Oslo and Utoya on July 22. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss France-U.S. strategic priorities.   July 24 In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. July 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President met with Willie H. Mays, Jr., assistant to the president and former center fielder, and Bruce Bochy, manager, Major League Baseball's San Francisco Giants. The President declared a major disaster  in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 19 through 23. July 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, at the official residence of Norwegian Ambassador to the U.S. Wegger Christian Strommen, the President and Vice President Biden extended their condolences on the terrorist attacks in Oslo and Utoya on July 22 and signed the Norwegian Embassy's book of condolences. Later, in the East Room, he participated in a photo opportunity with participants in the American Legion's Girls Nation event. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had a meeting with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. July 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  The White House announced that the President will hold an event announcing the next round of a national program to improve fuel efficiency for cars and light-duty trucks at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center on July 29.  The President announced his intention to nominate David Danielson to be Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Dot Harris to be Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact at the Department of Energy.  The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Lima, Peru, to attend the inauguration of President Ollanta Moises Humala Tasso on July 28: Daniel A. Restrepo (head of delegation); and Rose M. Likins. July 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with the Domestic Policy Council. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had separate meetings with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced that he has nominated Evan J. Wallach to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Ronnie Abrams to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Rudolph Contreras to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has appointed to following individuals as members of the Government Accountability and Transparency Board: Earl E. Devaney; Ashton B. Carter; W. Scott Gould; Allison C. Lerner; Daniel R. Levinson; Ellen Murray; Calvin L. Scovel III; Kathleen S. Tighe; Daniel I. Werfel; David C. Williams; and Neal S. Wolin. July 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  The President announced his intention to nominate Michael E. Horowitz to be Inspector General at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Anneila I. Sargent to be a member of the National Science Board of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Betty Castor and Susan Ness as members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Clement A. Price as Vice Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President declared a major disaster  in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding from May 19 through June 4. July 30 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. July 31 During the day, in the office of White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the deficit reduction and debt limit negotiations. Also present during the meeting were Chief of Staff Daley, National Economic Council Gene B. Sperling, and Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. August 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with Secretary of Commerce Gary F. Locke. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with U.S. Ambassador to Syria Robert S. Ford to discuss the situation in Syria and Syria-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on August 3. August 2 In the morning, in the East Room, the President met with the AFL-CIO Executive Council to discuss job creation and the economy. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the crew of the Space Shuttle Endeavour and U.S. Commander Scott J. Kelly of the International Space Station. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The White House announced that the President will hold an event to discuss work to prepare veterans for the workforce at the Washington Navy Yard on August 5.  The President announced his intention to nominate Ashton B. Carter to be Deputy Secretary of Defense at the Department of Defense.  The President announced his intention to nominate I. Charles McCullough III to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.  The President announced his intention to nominate Ernest Mitchell, Jr. to be Administrator of the U.S. Fire Administration at the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy M. Ware to be Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia.  The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory H. Woods to be General Counsel at the Department of Energy.  The President announced his intention to appoint Carol Pensky and Robert M. Saltzman to be members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced that he has nominated Miranda Du to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada.  The President announced that he has nominated Adalberto J. Jordan to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  The President announced that he has nominated David B. Barlow to be U.S. attorney for the District of Utah.  The President announced that he has nominated Catharine F. Easterly to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. August 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss World Trade Organization negotiations. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at Good Stuff Eatery, the President had lunch with senior White House officials. Then, in the Oval Office, he had separate meetings with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, where he participated in a Democratic National Committee video teleconference at the Aragon Entertainment Center. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House released further details on an event the President will hold to discuss work to prepare veterans for the workforce at the Washington Navy Yard on August 5.  The White House announced that the President will welcome the Super Bowl XLV champion Green Bay Packers to the White House on August 12. August 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The White House announced that the President will travel to Springfield, VA, on August 9. The White House announced that the President will travel to Holland, MI, on August 11. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial dedication on the National Mall on August 28. The President announced his intention to appoint Maria Lombardo to be Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint William Sisk as a member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled. The President announced his intention to appoint Steven L. VanRoekel to be Federal Chief Information Officer and Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government at the Office of Management and Budget. The President made additional disaster assistance available to the Sovereign Tribal Nation of the Havasupai Tribe in Arizona by authorizing an increase in the level of Federal funding for recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from October 3 through 6.  August 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Nikolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the European economy and the situation in Syria. Later, he traveled to Camp David, MD. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Springfield, VA, to announce new fuel efficiency standards for work trucks, buses, and other heavy-duty vehicles at Interstate Moving Services on August 9. The White House announced that the President will travel to Peosta, IA, to participate in a White House Rural Economic Forum on August 16. August 6 During the day, the President had a teleconference briefing with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta; Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon; White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley; and members of his national security staff to discuss U.S. and Afghan military personnel killed during a mission earlier in the day. August 7 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gen. John R. Allen, USMC, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan; Lt. Gen. Joseph L. Votel, USA, commander, Joint Special Operations Command; Gen. James N. Mattis, USMC, commander, U.S. Central Command; and Adm. Eric T. Olson, USN, commander, U.S. Special Operations Command, to express his condolences for U.S. military personnel killed during a mission in Afghanistan on August 6. He also had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to express his condolences for the Afghan military personnel killed during the same mission. August 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy to discuss the to discuss the economic situation in Europe and the global economy, the situation in Syria, and U.S. and Afghan military personnel killed during a mission in Afghanistan on August 6. The White House announced that the President will travel to Holland, MI, on August 11. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on August 11. The President made additional disaster  assistance available to North Dakota by authorizing an increase in the level of Federal funding for recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from February 14 through July 20. The President declared a major disaster in Utah and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from April 18 through July 16. August 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with industry leaders to discuss fuel efficiency standards for work trucks, buses, and heavy-duty vehicles. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Dover Air Force Base, DE, where, upon arrival in the afternoon, he witnessed the dignified transfer of the remains of U.S. military personnel killed during a mission in Afghanistan on August 6. He then met with the families of the deceased. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to southern Minnesota, northeastern Iowa, and western Illinois on a 3-day economic bus tour from August 15 through 17. August 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the global economy and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the Middle East peace process. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in an interview with Galina Espinoza of Latina magazine. Then he had an economic briefing with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had separate meetings with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. August 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Syria and the famine and humanitarian crisis affecting East Africa. Then, in the Situation Room, he had a video teleconference with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Ryan C. Crocker and Lt. Gen. John R. Allen, USMC, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Holland, MI, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President had a tour with Vice President of Operations Elizabeth Rolinski at an advanced battery facility at Johnson Controls, Inc. Later, he traveled to New York City. In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at the Ritz-Carlton New York, Battery Park hotel. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Minnesota to begin a 3-day economic bus tour on August 15. August 12 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss progress in Afghanistan. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business leaders to discuss the economy. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Iowa on August 15 and 16. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Illinois on August 17. The White House announced that the President will award a Congressional Medal of Honor on September 15. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from June 1 through August 1. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from May 24 through August 1. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 19 through 21. August 13 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the situation in Syria; Prime Minister-elect Yinglak Chinnawat of Thailand to congratulate her on her election victory and to discuss Thailand-U.S. relations; and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss United Kingdom-U.S. relations, the situation in Syria, and other issues. August 15 In the morning, the President traveled to St. Paul, MN, where he began a 3-day bus tour. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cannon Falls, MN. Later, at the Old Market Deli in Cannon Falls, he had lunch with Henry B. Mathia, Scott J. Peer, Timothy K. Loney, Thomas B. Newman, and Joseph D. Kidd, veterans of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. While en route to Decorah, he stopped in Zumbrota, MN, where, at the Coffee Mill restaurant, he visited with patrons, and in Chatfield, MN, where, at Chatfield High School, he met with campers and staff of the Valleyland Kids summer camp. In the evening, the President traveled to Hotel Winneshiek in Decorah, IA. August 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Guttenberg, IA, where, at Rausch's Cafe, he had breakfast with small-business owners Michael Sexton, Joel Althoff, Kenneth Hach, and Eric and Fern Unruh. He then traveled to Peosta, IA. In the afternoon, at Northeast Iowa Community College, the President participated in five breakout sessions at the White House Rural Forum. Later, also at Northeast Iowa Community College, he participated in separate interviews with Wolf Blitzer of CNN's "The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer," Mike Bush of KSDK in St. Louis, MO, and Phil Witt of WDAF in Kansas City, MO. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Davenport, IA. While en route to Davenport, he stopped in Maquoketa, IA, where, at Maquoketa High School, he met with student athletes and coaches, and in DeWitt, IA, where, at DeWitt Dairy Treats, he visited with patrons. Later, in LeClaire, IA, he stopped at Grasshoppers gift shop and then Kernel Cody's Popcorn Shoppe, where he also visited with patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to Hotel Blackhawk in Davenport, IA. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cape Cod, MA, on August 18. August 17 In the morning, the President traveled to Atkinson, IL. While en route to Atkinson, he stopped in Morrison, IL, where, at the Whiteside County Fair, he visited with patrons. In the afternoon, at the Wyffels Hybrids, Inc., Atkinson, IL, production facility, the President participated in an interview with Anthony Mason of CBS's "Sunday Morning" program. Later, he traveled to Alpha, IL. While en route to Alpha, he stopped in Galesburg, IL, where, at Galesburg High School, he met with student athletes and coaches. Later in the afternoon, the President participated in separate interviews with Tom Steever, president-elect, National Association of Farm Broadcasting, and Douglas Burns of the Daily Times Herald in Carroll, IA.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. August 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his economic advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Martha's Vineyard, MA. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan D. Page to be Ambassador to South Sudan. The President announced his intention to appoint Modesto E. Abety-Gutierrez and Lily Eskelsen as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics. The President announced his intention to appoint Christopher S. Hart as a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Choco G. Meza and E. Faye Williams as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from April 25 through July 7. August 19 In the morning, the President had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan. August 21 During the day, the President received regular updates from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the situation in Libya. In the evening, the President had a conference call with senior members of his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. August 22 In the morning, the President received a briefing from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the situation in Libya. He then received an economic briefing from National Economic Council Deputy Director Brian Deese. He also received a briefing on Hurricane Irene. Later in the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Warren E. Buffett, chief executive officer, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and Alan Mulally, president and chief executive officer, Ford Motor Company, to discuss the economy. In the afternoon, the President had a conference call with the National Security Council, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Brennan, and other members of his national security team to discuss the situation in Libya. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Libya. The White House announced that the President will travel to Detroit, MI, on September 5. The President declared an emergency in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 21 and continuing. August 23 In the morning, the President received a briefing from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the situation in Libya and Hurricane Irene. He then received an economic briefing from National Economic Council Deputy Director Brian Deese. In the afternoon, the President had a conference call with members of his national security team and other senior advisers to discuss the earthquake that struck the East Coast of the United States and the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Irene. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the situation in Libya and the global economy. August 24 In the morning, the President received an intelligence briefing from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the situation in Libya and the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Irene. He then received an economic briefing from National Economic Council Deputy Director Brian Deese. Also in the morning, the President had a conference call with Jeffrey R. Immelt, Chair, and Kenneth I. Chenault, member, President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, to discuss job creation and the economy. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from July 9 through 14. August 25 In the morning, the President received an intelligence briefing from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, which included an update on the situation in Libya. Later, he had a conference call with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, and other senior advisers to discuss the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Irene. Also in the morning, the President had a conference call with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob L. "Jack" Lew, National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling, and White House Chief of Staff Daley to discuss the economy, job creation, and deficit reduction. The President declared an emergency in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 25 and continuing. August 26 In the morning, the President had a conference call with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley to discuss the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Irene. Later in the morning, the President and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan had a conference call with Governors Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey, Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, Jack A. Markell of Delaware, Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia, Martin J. O'Malley of Maryland, Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts, and Beverly E. Perdue of North Carolina; and Mayors Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City; Paul D. Fraim of Norfolk, VA; Vincent C. Gray of Washington, DC; Michael A. Nutter of Philadelphia, PA; Stephanie Rawlins-Blake of Baltimore, MD; and William D. Sessoms, Jr., of Virginia Beach, VA, to discuss Federal, State, and local government preparations for Hurricane Irene. Also in the morning, the President received an economic briefing from National Economic Council Deputy Director Brian Deese. He also had a telephone conversation with International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde to discuss the global economy. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Minneapolis, MN, on August 30. The President declared an emergency in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 25 and continuing. August 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a conference call with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and other senior members of his emergency management team to discuss the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Irene. Later, also, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss economic stabilization efforts in Europe and the Middle East peace process. During the day, the President visited the Federal Emergency Management Agency's National Response Coordination Center, where he participated in a video teleconference with Governors and emergency managers in areas impacted by Hurricane Irene.  In the evening, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a conference call with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan to discuss the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Irene. The President declared an emergency in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared a major disaster in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 21 and continuing.  August 28 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a video teleconference with White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, Secretary of Transportation Raymond H. LaHood, Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan to discuss ongoing response and recovery efforts in the areas struck by Hurricane Irene. The President declared an emergency in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  The President declared an emergency in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement District and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing.  August 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he participated in separate telephone interviews for the radio shows of Tom Joyner and Matt McGill. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan B. Krueger to be Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.  The President declared an emergency in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing. August 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to appoint Nina M. Archabal and Barbara Bluhm-Kaul as members of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint Regina Blye as a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Cindy Campbell as a member of the American Battle Monuments Commission. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 27 through 29. August 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a meeting with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, White House Senior Adviser David Plouffe, and other senior advisers.  During the day, the President called Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, to congratulate him on his retirement from the U.S. military, to thank him for his contributions to U.S. national security in Iraq and Afghanistan, and to discuss his new role as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. The White House announced that the President will travel to Paterson, NJ, on September 4. The President declared an emergency in the State of North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 25 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in the State of New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in the State of New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene beginning on August 27 and continuing. September 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President called Prime Minister-elect Yoshihiko Noda of Japan to congratulate him on his election, discuss global economic stabilization efforts, and reaffirm Japan-U.S. relations. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, White House Senior Adviser David Plouffe, and National Economic Council Director Eugene B. Sperling. The White House announced that the President will travel to Detroit, MI, on September 5. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City from September 19 through 21. The White House announced that the President will welcome 2010 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series champion Jimmie Johnson and other NASCAR drivers to the White House on September 7. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Irene beginning on August 29 and continuing. September 2 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The President declared a major disaster in the Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Irene beginning on August 27 and continuing. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Paterson, NJ, on September 4. September 3 The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Irene on August 26 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene from August 26 through 28. The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene from August 26 through 30. The President declared a major disaster in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Irene from August 27 through 29. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Irene from August 27 through 29. September 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Newark, NJ, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President toured areas affected by affected by Hurricane Irene, accompanied by Administrator W. Craig Fugate and Federal Coordinating Officer William L. Vogel of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson; American Red Cross Chief Executive Officer and President Gail J. McGovern; Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey; Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg and Robert Menendez; Reps. William J. Pascrell, Jr., and Steven R. Rothman; Mayor Jeffery Jones of Patterson, NJ; and Mayor Christopher Vergano of Wayne, NJ. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Camp David, MD. September 5 In the morning, the President traveled to Detroit, MI, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, and members of his homeland security team to discuss security measures in advance of the upcoming 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2011, terrorist attacks. The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine Allgor and Drew R. McCoy to be members of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Eduardo Arriola and J. Kelly Ryan to be members of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Sara M. Aviel to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel J. Becker and James R. Hannah to be members of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to nominate Dana K. Bilyeu and David A. Jones to be members of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven H. Cohen to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Albert DiClemente to be Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Khouri to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. McMillan and Wenona Singel to be members of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Adam E. Namm to be Ambassador to Ecuador. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary B. Verner to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Jean Bailey; Susan M. DiMarco Johnson; Sonya M. Halpern; Mattie McFadden-Lawson; Melissa Moss; Deborah Dozier Potter; Kristin Gatchel Replogle; Jennifer Scully-Lerner; Ellen Schapps Richman; Mary Rouse-Terlevich; and Ellen Susman.  The President announced his intention to appoint Mona K. Sutphen and Philip D. Zelikow as members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Harry J. Wilson as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. September 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had separate meetings with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. J. Richard  Perry of Texas to express his condolences on the loss of life resulting from wildfires and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts and combating ongoing fires. The White House announced that the President will travel to Richmond, VA, on September 9. The White House announced that the President will travel to Shanksville, PA, on September 11. The White House announced that the President will award a Congressional Medal of Honor on September 15. The President announced his intention to nominate Cyrus Amir-Mokri to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Cyrus Amir-Mokri to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn Keneally to be Assistant Attorney General of the Tax Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Warren to be a member of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. September 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President and First Lady will travel to New York City on September 11. The White House announced that the President will travel to Columbus, OH, on September 13. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie D. Thacker to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Gregg J. Costa to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The President declared an emergency in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by Tropical Storm Lee on September 7 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by Tropical Storm Lee on September 3 and continuing. September 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, and members of his homeland security team to discuss security measures in advance of the upcoming 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2011, terrorist attacks. He then traveled to Richmond, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation at the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, Egypt. The White House announced that the President will travel to Raleigh-Durham, NC, on September 14. The President announced his intention to appoint Glenn S. Gerstell as a member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Charles "Chip" Lyons as U.S. Alternate Representative on the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by wildfires on August 30 and continuing. September 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his national security team to review ongoing counterterrorism efforts. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at Arlington National Cemetery, they paid their respects to U.S. servicemembers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, returned to the Washington, DC. Then, they and their daughters Sasha and Malia visited the DC Central Kitchen, where they participated in a service project to commemorate the September 11th National Day of Service and Remembrance. September 11 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City, where, at the National September 11 Memorial, they met with former President George W. Bush , Mrs. Bush, the families of victims of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, and local elected officials, toured the site, and participated in a ceremony to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Shanksville, PA. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama visited the site of the September 11, 2001, crash of United Airlines Flight 93, participated in a wreath-laying ceremony for victims of the crash, and met with victims' families. They then traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at the Pentagon, they attended a wreath-laying ceremony to commemorate the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. September 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the South Court Auditorium of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President dropped by a question-and-answer session between senior administration officials and journalists. The White House announced that the President will travel to Raleigh-Durham, NC, on September 14. The White House announced that the President will travel to Australia from November 16 through 17. September 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting between Vice President Biden and President Traian Basescu of Romania. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Columbus, OH., where he toured a newly modernized graphic design classroom at the Fort Hayes Metropolitan Education Center,. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Pannetta. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to the White House on October 13. The President announced his intention to appoint Manuel Gomez and Sara Lundquist as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics. The President announced his intention to appoint Katrina L. Peebles as a member of the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the struck by Tropical Storm Irene from August 27 through 29.  The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Lee beginning on September 3 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the remnants of Tropical Strom Lee beginning on September 7 and continuing. September 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Apex, NC, where he toured the WestStar Precision manufacturing facility. In the afternoon the President traveled to Raleigh, NC. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Biden. Later, on the patio outside the Oval Office, he had a beer with Congressional Medal of Honor recipient Sgt. Dakota L. Meyer, USMC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Alexandria, VA, on September 16. The President announced his intention to nominate Brad Carson to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Alistair M. Fitzpayne to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. McFaul to be Ambassador to Russia. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin A. Ohlson to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald Buch to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to appoint H. Fisk Johnson as a member of the Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas L. McKiernan as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy. The President announced that he has nominated David C. Guaderrama to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. September 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City from September 19 through 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cincinnati, OH, on September 22. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from August 13 through 15. September 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Alexandria, VA, where he visited a classroom and viewed students' science and technology projects at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will visit Benjamin Banneker Academic High School in Washington, DC, on September 28. The President announced his intention to nominate Ann Marie Buerkle and Russ Carnahan to be U.S. Representatives to the 66th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to appoint Teresita Fernandez as a member of the Commission of Fine Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint John M. Spratt, Jr., as Chairman of the U.S. section of the Permanent Joint Board on Defense, U.S. and Canada. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene from August 24 through September 5. September 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the global economy and Middle East peace efforts. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City. Later, at the Ronald H. Brown U.S. Mission to the United Nations Building, he met with U.S. Mission staff and their families. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks on education at the White House on September 23. September 20 In the morning, at the U.N. Headquarters, the President met with Mustafa Mohammed Abdul Jalil, Chairman, Transitional National Council of Libya. In the afternoon, at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, the President met with President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil. Later, also at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, he participated in a photo opportunity with leaders attending an Open Government Partnership event. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cincinnati, OH, on September 22. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mountain View, CA, on September 26. The President announced his intention to appoint Kimberly A. Owens and Sima F. Sarrafan as members of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Jan R. Frye and Carol E. Lowman as members of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.  September 21 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the U.N. Headquarters. In the afternoon, at the U.N. Headquarters, the President met with U.N. General Assembly President Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser.  He then met with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Then, he traveled to the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, where he met separately with President Salva Kiir Mayardit of South Sudan and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority. In the evening, at the New York Public Library, the President and Mrs. Obama attended a reception for the U.N. General Assembly. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced further details on the President's remarks on education at the White House on September 23. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Mountain View, CA, on September 25. The President announced his intention to appoint Laurie R. Garduque as a member of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. The President announced his intention to appoint Tyler Jacks as a member of the National Cancer Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Karen J. McCulloh and Lisa M. Wilusz as members of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. The President announced his intention to appoint Joan E. Silber as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. September 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Seattle, WA, on September 25. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to San Diego and Los Angeles, CA, on September 26. The President announced that he has nominated Jacqueline H. Nguyen to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Michael A. Hughes to be a U.S. marshal for the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Brian C. Wimes to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri. September 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he met with members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said of Oman to thank him for his role in the release of two American hikers held in Iran. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Porfirio Lobo Sosa of Honduras to the White House on October 5. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Denver, CO, on September 27. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Benjamin Banneker Academic High School on September 28. The President announced his intention to nominate Gary Blumenthal to be a member of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to nominate Maurice A. Jones to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan A. Maxman to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew S. Rutherford to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to appoint Rachel F. Moran as a member of the Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise. The President announced a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding from June 1 through August 1. September 24 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he played a round of golf with former President William J. Clinton, White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, and Douglas J. Band, counselor to former President Clinton. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 25 In the morning, the President traveled to Medina, WA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Seattle, WA. Later, he traveled to Woodside, CA. He then traveled to Atherton, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to the Fairmont San Jose hotel in San Jose, CA. September 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Mountain View, CA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to La Jolla, CA. Later, he traveled to West Hollywood, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to the Beverly Wilshire hotel in Beverly Hills, CA. September 27 In the morning, the President traveled to Denver, CO, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia to the White House on October 7. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl W. Gast to be Assistant Administrator for Africa at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Roberta S. Jacobson to be Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Glen F. Post III to be a member of the Presidents National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael T. Scuse to be Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services at the Department of Agriculture. September 28 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Islom Karimov of Uzbekistan to congratulate him on the 20th anniversary of Uzbekistans independence and to discuss U.S.-Uzbekistan relations and the situation in Afghanistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement District and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene from August 26 through September 1. September 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, in the Diplomatic Room, the President participated in separate television interviews with Vicki Yates of WTVF in Nashville, TN, Cameron Kent of WXII in Greensboro-Winston-Salem, NC, and Jim Payne of WESH in Orlando, FL, to discuss the American Jobs Act. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with his National Security Council.  The White House announced that the President will travel to St. Louis, MO, on October 4. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mesquite, TX, on October 4. September 30 In the morning, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the Central Intelligence Agency counterterrorism operation in Yemen that resulted in the death of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula senior member Anwar al-Awlaki. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. They then traveled to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, VA. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in an interview with radio host Michael Smerconish. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of Norway to the White House on October 20. The White House announced that the President will welcome the Super Bowl XX champion Chicago Bears to the White House on August 12. The White House released further details on the Presidents visit to Mesquite, TX, on October 4. The President declared a major disaster in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Irene from August 25 through 31. October 1 The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2011 NCAA champion Texas A&M University women's basketball team to the White House on October 6. October 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in an interview with George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Shree Bose, Lauren Hodge, Naomi Shah, winners of the 2011 Google Science Fair. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands Fay Hartog Levin. October 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Dallas, TX. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Mesquite, TX, where he visited Eastfield College, toured the campus's Children's Laboratory School, and met with students and teachers. Later, he traveled to St. Louis, MO. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Adam Gamoran and Judith D. Singer to be members of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences. The President announced his intention to nominate James Timberlake to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences. October 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President signed H.R. 2608, the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with the 2011 Boys & Girls Clubs of America Youth of the Year winner and regional finalists. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the White House American Latino Heritage Forum on October 12. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics: Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll; Nancy Navarro; Adrian A. Pedroza; and Kent P. Scribner. The President announced that he has nominated Patty Shwartz to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The President declared a major disaster in the State of Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee from September 6 through 9. October 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The White House announced that the President will travel to Pittsburgh, PA, on October 11. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando, FL, on October 11. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 243: Ira F. Jaffe; Roberta Golick; Joshua M. Javits; Gil Vernon; and Arnold M. Zack. October 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Sens. Richard J. Durbin and Charles E. Schumer to discuss job growth legislation. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Petr Necas of the Czech Republic to the White House on October 27. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Malory Cousens to be U.S. Representative to the U.N. Economic and Social Council. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul W. Hodes to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert L. Sumwalt to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to appoint May Y. Chen, Tung Thanh Nguyen, and Apolo Anton Ohno to be members of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. The President announced his intention to appoint Marta Araoz de la Torre and Jane A. Levine to be members of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint Janet R. Kahn to be a member of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health. October 8 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Camp David, MD. October 9 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. October 10 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and President Nicolas Sarkozy  of France to discuss the economic situation in Europe.  He also congratulated Prime Minister Cameron on the occasion of his 45th birthday and spoke with President Sarkozy about the Middle East peace process. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and presented Purple Hearts to four servicemembers. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to Lake Orion, MI, on October 14. October 11 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with members of his national security team to thank them for their work in disrupting an alleged Iranian-backed plot to assassinate Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to the United States. Then, he traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, where he toured the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local No. 5 Apprenticeship Training Center. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Orlando, FL. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Saudi Arabia's Ambassdor to the U.S. Adil al-Ahmad al-Jubayr to discuss the disruption of an alleged Iranian-backed plot to assassinate him and to express the solidarity of the United States with Saudi Arabia. In the evening, at the Harp and Celt Restaurant and Irish Pub, the President met with Mayor John H. "Buddy" Dyer, Jr., of Orlando, FL, and unemployed construction workers Michael Whidden of Gotha, FL, Patricia Mooney-Hildebrand of Titusville, FL, Mark Mckim of Sanford, FL, and Jesse Morgan of Auburndale, FL, to discuss job creation and the economy. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. October 12 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with the National Association of Evangelicals Executive Committee. Then, in the Oval Office, he presented the Defense Superior Service Medal to Military Aide to the President Lt. Col. Barrett Bernard, USA, during a departure ceremony. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the disruption of an alleged Iranian-backed plot to assassinate Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to the United States. In the evening, the President and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea traveled to Tysons Corner, VA, where, at the Woo Lae Oak Korean restaurant, they had dinner. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Guadalajara, Mexico, to attend the opening ceremony of the XVI Pan American Games on October 14: Earl A. Wayne (head of delegation); Julie S. Ertel; and Allyson M. Felix. The White House announced that the President will travel to North Carolina and Virginia on a 3-day bus tour from October 17 through 19. October 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a bilateral meeting with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they had an expanded bilateral meeting with U.S. and South Korean officials. In the afternoon the President had a telephone conversation with boxer Dewey Rader Bozella to wish him luck on his upcoming match.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to thank him for his assistance in winning Congressional approval for trade agreements with Columbia, Panama, and South Korea and the renewal of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted President Lee and his wife Kim Yoon-ok upon their arrival for a state dinner and reception. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photo opportunity.  The White House released further details on the President's 3-day bus tour through North Carolina and Virginia from October 17 through 19. The President announced his intention to nominate Grande Lum to be Director of the Community Relations Service at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Kamilah Oni Martin-Proctor to be a member of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon Villarosa to be Ambassador to Mauritius and Seychelles. October 14 In the morning, the President and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea traveled to Lake Orion, MI, with arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President and President Lee toured the facilities of the General Motors Orion Assembly Plant. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.  Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the economic situation in Europe and preparations from the upcoming G20 summit in Cannes, France. The White House released further details on the President's 3-day bus tour through North Carolina and Virginia from October 17 through 19. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee from September 6 through 11. October 16 In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception with members of the civil rights community in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr., and his family. The White House released further details on the President's 3-day bus tour through North Carolina and Virginia from October 17 through 19. October 17 In the morning, the President traveled to Fletcher, NC, where he began a 3-day bus tour. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Millers Creek, NC. While en route, he stopped in Marion, NC, where, at the Countryside Barbecue restaurant, he had lunch and visited with patrons. Then, in Boone, NC, he stopped at the Mast General Store and Our Daily Bread bakery, where he also visited with patrons. Later in the afternoon, at West Wilkes High School, the President participated in separate phone interviews for the radio shows of Jodi Berry of WFXC/WFXK in Durham, NC, and Larry "No Limit Larry" Mims of WPEG in Charlotte, NC, both of which were taped for later broadcast. Later, he participated in a television interview with Dave Wagner of WCNC, which was also taped for later broadcast. In the evening the President traveled to Greensboro, NC. The President announced his intention to nominate Gina Abercrombie-Winstanley to be Ambassador to Malta. The President announced his intention to nominate Julissa Reynoso to be Ambassador to Uruguay. The President announced his intention to nominate Wendy Spencer to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert E. Whitehead to be Ambassador to Togo. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert L. Blazs as U.S. Commissioner of the Canadian River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Jayne D. Greenberg as a member of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition. The President announced that he has nominated Paul J. Watford to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. October 18 In the morning, the President traveled to Jamestown, NC. Later, in the Children's Center at Guilford Technical Community College, he participated in an interview with Jake Tapper for ABC's "Nightline." In the afternoon, the President traveled to Skipwith, VA. While en route, he stopped at Reid's House Restaurant in Reidsville, NC, where he had lunch and visited with patrons. Upon arrival in Skipwith, VA, he toured a computer lab and viewed a robotics demonstration at Bluestone High School,  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Emporia, VA. While en route, he stopped at Patricia's Child Care Center, in Brodnax, VA, where he greeted children and visited with staff, and at Brodnax Post Office, where he greeted patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to Hampton, VA. The White House announced that the President will award the 2010 National Medals of Science and the National Medals of Technology and Innovation on October 21. The President announced his intention to nominate Freddy Balsera to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. The President announced his intention to appoint Albert Gonzales as a member of the National Selective Service Appeal Board. The President declared a major disaster in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms from September 8 through 14. October 19 In the morning, the President traveled to Joint Base Langley-Eustis in Hampton, VA, where he was joined by Mrs. Obama. Later, he and Mrs. Obama visited Wood's Orchards Farm Market, where they visited with patrons.  In the afternoon, at Anna's Pizza and Italian Kitchen, the President and Mrs. Obama had lunch with veterans Amanda Leigh, Brian Sullivan, Jill A. Lynch, and Patrick L. Burrows. They then traveled to North Chesterfield, VA. While en route, the President participated separate phone interviews for the radio shows of Baye "DJ Bee" Reel of WOWI in Norfolk, VA and Charles Black of WVKL in Norfolk, VA, both of which were taped for later broadcast. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Carol J. Galante to be Assistant Secretary for Housing and Federal Housing Commissioner at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Chard, Larry V. Hedges, and Hirokazu Yoshikawa to be members of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences. October 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President participated in a videoconference with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss developments in Libya and the economic situation in Europe. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on October 24. The President announced his intention to nominate Bonnie Bassler to be a member of the National Science Board of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Carla M. Leon-Decker to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark W. Lippert to be Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas M. Hoenig to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. October 21 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President had a teleconference meeting with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq. Later, in the Oval Office, he signed H.R. 2832, legislation to renew the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, H.R. 3080, the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, H.R. 3078, the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act, and H.R. 3079, the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act. Then, in the Rose Garden, he dropped by a reception with business and labor leaders and individuals who would benefit from the bills. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia and President Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal of Panama to discuss the signing of trade promotion legislation for their respective countries. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV on October 24. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco, CA on October 25. The White House announced that the President will travel to Denver, CO on October 25. October 23 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to express his condolences on the death of Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud. October 24 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Defense Minister Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi of Egypt to discuss the upcoming Egyptian elections, the economic situation in Egypt, and Egypt-U.S. counterterrorism and security cooperation. Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. Later, he visited Roscoe's House of Chicken 'n Waffles. In the evening, the President traveled to Beverly Hills, CA. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Department of the Interior on December 2. October 25 In the morning, at the Beverly Wilshire hotel, the President met with a group of entertainment industry executives. Then, he traveled to Burbank, CA, where, at NBC Studios, he participated in an interview with Jay Leno of "The Tonight Show." Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Denver, CO, arriving in the evening. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Saudi Arabia to offer condolences on the death of Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); James B. Smith; John S. McCain; William S. Cohen; Raymond E. Mabus, Jr.; David H. Petraeus; and James N. Mattis. October 26 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. October 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, and then with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President called Cheryl Reeve, head coach of the Women's National Basketball Association's Minnesota Lynx, to congratulate her and her team on winning the WNBA Finals. Later, in the East Room, he hosted a reception for municipal leaders from across the country. In the evening, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at the Liberty Tavern, he had dinner with Casey Helbling of Minneapolis, MN, Ken Knight of Chandler, AZ, Juanita Martinez of Brighton, CO, and Wendi Smith of Corydon, IN, winners of a contest held by his reelection campaign. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Australia from November 16 through 17. October 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he attended a Diwali reception. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the 
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council
: Joseph D. Gutman; Roman R. Kent; Howard D. Unger; Clemantine Wamariya; and Elie Wiesel. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Tropical Storm Lee from September 1 through 5. October 29 In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted trick-or-treaters. Later, they hosted a Halloween reception for military families and local student.  October 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Quartet Representative to the Middle East Tony Blair. The White House announced that the President will visit Georgetown Waterfront Park in Washington, DC, on November 2. The President declared an emergency in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from a severe storm from October 29 through 30. The President announced his intention to nominate Ajit V. Pai and Jessica Rosenworcel to be Commissioners at the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca M. Blank to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry L. Palmer to be Ambassador to Barbados, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The President announced his intention to nominate Coral W. Pietsch to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Sheehan to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict at the Department of Defense. November 1        In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he participated in separate interviews with Nikole Killion of Hearst Television news bureau in Washington, DC, Tom Schaad of WAVY in Portsmouth, VA, Mark Wilson of WTVT in Tampa, FL, Dave Ward of KTRK in Houston, TX, Rob McCartney of KETV in Omaha, NE, Amelia Santaniello of WCCO in Minneapolis, MN, Brian Taff of WPVI in Philadelphia, PA, Adele Arakawa of KUSA in Denver, CO, John Hook of KSAZ in Phoenix, AZ, and Tracy Barry of KGW in Portland, OR. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President greeted Janet L. Kavandi, Director, NASA's Flight Crew Operations Directorate, and Christopher J. Ferguson, commander, Douglas G. Hurley, pilot, and Rex J. Walheim and Sandra H. Magnus, mission specialists, Space Shuttle Atlantis. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with House of Representatives Democratic leadership. The White House announced that the President will participate in a ceremony honoring the France-U.S. alliance in Cannes, France, on November 4. The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from a severe storm from October 29 through 30. The President declared an emergency in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from a severe storm from October 29 through 30. November 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Senate Democratic leadership. During the day, in the Cabinet Room, the President met with his national security team. In the evening, the President traveled to Cannes, France, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health: Jerry L. Johnson; Jacob Lozada; Dean Ornish; and Herminia Palacio. The President announced his intention to appoint Kent A. Salazar as a member of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust. The President announced that he has nominated Andrew D. Hurwitz to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Kristine G. Baker to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas. November 3 In the morning, the President traveled to the Palais de Festivals et des Congres, where, in the Espace Riviera, he was greeted by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. In the afternoon, at the InterContinental Carlton Cannes Hotel, the President met with international labor leaders at the Labor 20 (L20) summit. Later, at the Espace Riviera, he participated in a working lunch with Group of Twenty (G20) leaders, followed by a G20 working session. He then participated in a G20 group photo opportunity, followed by another G20 working session. In the evening, at the Espace Riviera, the President participated in a working dinner with G20 leaders. Later, he returned to the InterContinental Carlton Cannes Hotel. The President announced his intention to appoint Sondra Myers and Jackie Norris as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. November 4 In the morning, at the Espace Riviera, the President participated in G20 working sessions. In the afternoon, at the Espace Riviera, the President participated in a working lunch with G20 leaders. Later, in Cannes's Town Hall, he and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France participated in an interview with Laurence Ferrari of TF1 and David Pujadas of France 2. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to the White House on December 12. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne C. Richard to be Assistant Secretary for Population, Refugees and Migration at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Tara D. Sonenshine to be Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Meredith M. Broadbent to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Julie A. Petty and Lauren E. Potter as members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by an earthquake from August 23 through October 25. November 5 The White House announced that the President will welcome President Anibal Antonio Cavaco Silva of Portugal to the White House on November 9. November 6 The White House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, on November 8. November 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he greeted representatives from veterans' service organizations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Then he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with St. Louis Cardinals Manager Anthony La Russa, Jr., to congratulate him on his team's victory over the Texas Rangers in the 2011 World Series. November 8 In the morning, the President traveled to Yeadon, PA, where he toured classrooms at the Yeadon Regional Head Start Center and met with students and teachers. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Arlington, VA, and San Diego, CA, on November 11. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Honolulu, HI, on November 11 for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on May 20. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement District recovery efforts in the area affected by an earthquake from August 23 through 28. November 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Vice President Biden, White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes, and other senior advisers to discuss the economy.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with President Anibal Antonio Cavaco Silva of Portugal. November 10 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss economic stabilization efforts in Europe. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley, White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer, White House Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, White House Senior Advisers Valerie B. Jarrett and David Plouffe, and Counselor to the President Peter M. Rouse. The President announced that he has nominated Richard G. Taranto to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Gonzalo P. Curiel to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated John Z. Lee  and John J. Tharp, Jr., to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated George L. Russell III to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The President announced that he has nominated Scott L. Silliman and William B. Pollard III to be judges on the U.S. Court of Military Commission Review. November 11 In the morning, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a breakfast for veterans. Later, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a Veterans Day wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to San Diego, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico to express his condolences on the helicopter crash just outside Mexico City that killed eight Mexican Government officials, including Secretary of Government Jose Francisco Blake Mora. Later in the afternoon, on the deck of the USS Carl Vinson at North Island Naval Station, the President participated in an interview with Jim Gray of Westwood One Sports. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Sen. Patricia L. Murray and Rep. T. Jeb Hensarling, cochairs of the bipartisan Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, to urge them to reach an agreement before the November 23 deadline. In the evening, the President participated in an interview with Andy Katz of ESPN. Later, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Honolulu, HI. November 12 In the evening, at the Hale Koa Hotel, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in an arrival ceremony for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders and their spouses. Later, they traveled to the Hilton Hawaiian Village Waikiki Beach Resort. November 13 In the morning, the President traveled to the JW Marriott Ihilani Ko Olina Resort & Spa, where he participated in a meeting with the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Advisory Council. In the afternoon, at the JW Marriott Ihilani Ko Olina Resort & Spa, the President met with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss Canada-U.S. relations, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and Canada's participation in military operations in Libya and Afghanistan. He then had a working lunch with APEC leaders. Later, he participated in a photo opportunity and working session with APEC leaders. During the day, the President met with President Ollanta Moises Humala Tasso of Peru to discuss Peru-U.S. relations and the upcoming Summit of the Americas. November 14 The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah J. Jeffrey to be Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark J. Mazur to be Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to appoint Janie Barrera and Sherry S. Black as members of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability. November 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Canberra, Australia, crossing the international dateline and arriving the following afternoon. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with former Prime Minister George A. Papandreou of Greece to thank him for his contributions to Greece and Greece-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Manchester, NH, on November 22. November 16 In the afternoon, upon arrival in Canberra, Australia, the President traveled to Parliament House, where he participated in an arrival ceremony with Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia. He then met with Prime Minister Gillard. In the evening, the President traveled to the Hyatt Hotel Canberra. November 17 In the morning, the President traveled to the Australian War Memorial, where he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony in the Hall of Memory. Later, he traveled to Parliament House, where he met with Leader of the Opposition Anthony J. Abbott. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Chancery, the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where he greeted U.S. Embassy personnel. Then, on the grounds, he participated in a tree dedication ceremony with U.S. Ambassador to Australia Jeffrey L. Bleich. Later, he traveled to Darwin, Australia, where he visited the USS Peary Memorial and participated in a wreath-laying ceremony with Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia. In the evening, the President traveled to the Grand Hyatt Bali in Bali, Indonesia. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Aung San Suu Kyi, leader of the National League for Democracy in Burma, to discuss the situation in Burma and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's upcoming visit. The President announced his intention to nominate Sara A. Gelser to be a member of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to nominate Margaret A. Sherry to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced that he has nominated Gershwin A. Drain to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The President announced that he has nominated Roy W. McLeese III to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee from September 8 through 9. The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm from October 29 through 30. November 18 In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Bali International Convention Centre, where he participated in a meeting with Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) leaders. In the evening, the President traveled to the Grand Hyatt Bali. Later, he returned to the Bali International Convention Centre, where he participated in a photo opportunity and dinner with East Asia Summit leaders. Later, he returned to the Grand Hyatt Bali. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Manchester, NH, on November 22. The White House announced that the President will hold the Thanksgiving turkey pardoning at the White House on November 23. November 19 In the morning, at the Grand Hyatt Bali, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel. Later, he had a meeting with Premier Wen Jiabao of China to discuss the global economic situation and the territorial dispute in the South China Sea.  Later, he traveled to the Bali International Convention Centre, where he attended an East Asia Summit plenary session. In the afternoon, the President participated in a social lunch for the East Asia Summit with other Asian-Pacific leaders. He then participated in the East Asia Summit group photo and attended the East Asian Summit retreat. Later, he traveled to Anderson Air Force Base, Guam.  In the evening, the President traveled to Honolulu, HI, crossing the International Date Line and arriving in the afternoon. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. November 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to congratulation him on his appointment as Prime Minister and to discuss the economic situation in Europe. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Lukas Papademos of Greece to congratulate him on his appointment as Prime Minister and to discuss the economic situation in Europe. He then had a telephone conversation with President-elect Otto Perez Molina of Guatemala to congratulate him on his election and commend the Guatemalan people on their commitment to democracy. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President held a signing ceremony for S. 1280, the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011, and greeted Peace Corps staff, former Peace Corps volunteers, and David Puzey, brother, and other relatives of Catherine "Kate" Puzey, a Peace Corps volunteer who was murdered in Benin in 2009. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in separate interviews for the syndicated radio shows of Michael Baisden and Al Sharpton. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands to the White House of November 29. November 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Manchester, NH. Later, at Julien's Corner Kitchen restaurant, he met with Christopher and Kathy Corkery and their sons Andrew and Nicholas. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Scranton, PA, on November 30. November 23 In the morning, at the South Court Auditorium of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President participated in a 50th anniversary celebration for the Peace Corps and U.S. Agency for International Development. In the afternoon, at the Capital Area Food Bank, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia, handed out Thanksgiving groceries to families. The President announced his intention to nominate Marilyn B. Tavenner to be Administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to appoint Mark L. Alderman as a member of the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum. The President announced his intention to appoint Keith M. Harper as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced his intention to appoint Fletcher "Flash" Wiley as a member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy.  The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from August 19 through 24. November 24 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with 10 members of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service. During the day, the President celebrated Thanksgiving at the White House with his family, friends, and members of his staff. November 26 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, Sasha, and Malia traveled to Towson University in Towson, MD, to attend a men's basketball game. Later, they returned to the White House. November 27 The White House announced that the President will travel to Scranton, PA, on November 30. November 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with European Union leaders to discuss global economic stabilization efforts, international humanitarian assistance, nonproliferation negotiations with Iran, and counterterrorism cooperation. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President had lunch with European Union leaders. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on November 30. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at George Washington University on December 1. November 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Kyrgyzstan to attend the inauguration of Almazbek Atambayev as Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan on December 1: Pamela L. Spratlen (head of delegation); and Robert O. Blake, Jr. The President announced his intention to nominate Fredrick Barton to be Assistant Secretary for Conflict and Stabilization Operations and Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Arun Majumdar to be Under Secretary of Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Marie F. Smith to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara K. Rimer as Chairman of the President's Cancer Panel. The President announced his intention to appoint Owen N. Witte as a member of the President's Cancer Panel. November 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Scranton, PA. Upon arrival in Scranton, he traveled to the residence of Patrick and Donna Festa. He then traveled to New York City. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with 2011 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series champion Tony Stewart to congratulate him and his team on winning the series. He also had a telephone conversation with Major League Soccer's LA Galaxy head coach Bruce Arena to congratulate him and the team on winning the 2011 MLS Cup. The President announced he has nominated Timothy S. Hillman to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced he has nominated Robin S. Rosenbaum to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced he has nominated Robert J. Shelby to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm on October 29. December 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President met with military officials and took them on a tour of the East Wing Christmas decorations. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan D. Farrar to be Ambassador to Panama. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph E. Macmanus to be U.S. Representative to the Vienna Office of the U.N. and U.S. Representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Phyllis M. Powers to be Ambassador to Nicaragua. The President announced his intention to nominate William E. Todd to be Ambassador to Cambodia. The President announced his intention to appoint Philip G. Freelon to be a member of the Commission of Fine Arts. December 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and former President William J. Clinton toured the Chanin Building at 815 Connecticut Ave., NW, an office building which is undergoing an efficiency upgrade. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark A. Robbins to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Tony Hammond to be a Commissioner on the Postal Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Pauline Maier to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Joan W. Harris as a member of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Dallas L. Salisbury as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. December 3 The White House announced that the President will travel to Osawatomie, KS, on December 6. December 4 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan to discuss Pakistan-U.S. relations and to express his condolences on the recent loss of Pakistani soldiers along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the Kennedy Center Honors Gala. Later, they returned to the White House. December 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan met with the heads of several post-secondary education institutions and organizations to discuss education affordability. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm and snowstorm from October 29 through 30. December 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Osawatomie, KS, where, upon arrival in the afternoon, at Osawatomie High School, he participated in the first part of an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" for later broadcast. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Paola, KS, where, at the We B Smokin' restaurant, he met with employees and patrons. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. December 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Democratic leadership. Later, he had a telephone conversation with James P. Hoffa of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters to congratulate him on his IBT president election victory. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss Europe's economic stabilization efforts. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. Later, at The Jefferson hotel, he attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. The President announced his intention to appoint Preeta D. Bansal and Boris Bershteyn as members of the Advisory Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S. December 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with House Democratic leadership. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President participated in separate interviews with Debby Knox of WISH in Indianapolis, IN, Jim Snyder of KSNV in Las Vegas, NV, Richard Ransom of WREG in Memphis, TN, and Pat Callaghan of WCSH in Portland, ME. The White House announced that the President will attend the Army/Navy football game on December 10 and that he and Mrs. Obama will travel to Fort Bragg, NC, on December 14. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of the Presidential delegation to Buenos Aires, Argentina, to attend the inauguration of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina on December 10: Hilda L. Solis (head of delegation); Vilma S. Martinez; and Daniel Restrepo. December 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in the second part of an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" for later broadcast. In the afternoon, at the Blair House, the President attended a holiday reception. December 10 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Landover, MD, where at FedEx Field, he attended the Army-Navy football game with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill, Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin E. Dempsey. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House released further details on the President and Mrs. Obama's visit to Fort Bragg, NC, on December 14 to commemorate the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and recognize the service and dedication of military personnel and families. December 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a meeting with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met separately with Prime Minister Maliki. In the afternoon, the President, Vice President Biden, and Prime Minister Maliki traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at Arlington National Cemetery, they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. They then returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. December 13 In the morning, the President participated in separate television interviews with David Alan of WVEC in Norfolk, VA; Bob Solarski of WEAR in Pensacola, FL; Rob Quirk of KOAA in Colorado Springs, CO; and Angela Russell of KIRO in Seattle, Washington, to discuss the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and extension of the payroll tax cut. December 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Fort Bragg, NC, where they met with military personnel and families. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President met with his national security team to discuss enhanced security preparations for the upcoming holiday season. The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon Block and Richard F. Griffin, Jr., to be members of the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Raynor to be Ambassador to Benin.  The President announced his intention to nominate Jacob Walles to be Ambassador to Tunisia. December 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The President announced his intention to nominate David Medine to be Chairman of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Rachel L. Brand and Patricia M. Wald to be members of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. December 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss the World Trade Organization's formal invitation to Russia for membership, recent elections and political demonstrations in Russia, and Russia-U.S. relations. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard B. Berner to be Director of the Office of Financial Research at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy J. Powell to be Ambassador to India. The President announced that he has nominated John T. Fowlkes, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Kevin McNulty to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. December 18 In the evening, the President was briefed by White House Chief of Staff William M. Daley on the death of Chairman Kim Jong Il of North Korea. December 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to discuss the situation on the Korean Peninsula following the death of Chairman Kim Jong Il of North Korea and reaffirm the U.S. commitment to South Korea's security. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali of Tunisia to congratulate him on his appointment and discuss Tunisia's democratic transition. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda of Japan to discuss the situation on the Korean Peninsula following the death of Chairman Kim Jong Il of North Korea and reaffirm the U.S. commitment to Japan's security. December 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister-elect Mariano Rajoy Brey of Spain to congratulate him on his election victory and discuss Spain-U.S. relations. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, they traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where, in the afternoon, they participated in a ceremony marking the return of the Colors of U.S. ForcesIraq and the end of military operations in Iraq. Later in the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden returned to Washington, DC. December 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid to discuss the ongoing negotiations over legislation to extend the payroll tax cut. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Alexandria, VA, where he shopped for Christmas gifts. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Prague, Czech Republic, to attend the funeral of former President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic on December 23: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); William J. Clinton; Norman L. Eisen; and Madeleine K. Albright. The President announced his intention to appoint Margaret M. Murnane as Chairman of the Presidents Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Judith Kimble and Henry T. Yang as members of the Presidents Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Beth White as a member of the National Capital Planning Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Susan York as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of Americas Heritage Abroad. December 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss the ongoing negotiations over legislation to extend the payroll tax cut. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he was briefed by Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs Robert L. Nabors II on the congressional agreement to extend the payroll tax cut. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding from November 8 through 10. December 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Kailua, HI, arriving in the evening.  December 24 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with 10 members of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service. December 25 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended a Christmas service at the chapel on Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Kaneohe Bay. They then returned to Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Marine Corps Base Hawaii, where, in Anderson Hall, they visited with members of the U.S. military and their families. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. December 26 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 27 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia visited Hanauma Bay Nature Preserve where they released four green sea turtles born in captivity into the wild. Later, they traveled to Waimanalo, HI, where they toured Sea Life Park Hawaii. They then returned to Kailua, HI. The President announced his intention to nominate Jerome H. Powell and Jeremy C. Stein to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. December 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 29 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the World War II Valor of the Pacific National Monument at Pearl Harbor, HI, where they toured the USS Arizona Memorial and participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. December 30 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 31 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Names: Aaron, Henry J.; Abbas, Mahmoud; Abbott, Anthony J.; Abdul Jalil, Mustafa Mohammed; Abella, Alicia; Abercrombie-Winstanley, Gina; Abety-Gutierrez, Modesto E.; Abrams, Ronnie; Acevedo, Sylvia; Achtenberg, Roberta; Acton, Mark D.; Adams, David S.; Adams, Felicia C.; Adams, Thomas C.; Aguilar, Luis A.; Alan, David; Albright, Madeleine K.; Alderman, Mark L.; Alexander, Lamar; al-Hibri, Azizah; Aliyev, Ilham; Allen, John R.; Allgor, Catherine; Al-Nasser, Nassir Abdulaziz; Althoff, Joel; Amir Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah; Amir-Mokri, Cyrus; Anchia, Rafael; Anderson, Annette McKenzie; Anderson, Brooke D.; Anderson, Leith; Andrews, Richard G.; Archabal, Nina M.; Arena, Bruce; Arevalo, Adriana; Arriola, Eduardo; Artiles, Alfredo J.; Arvizu, Dan; Atambaev, Almazbek; Athey, Susan; Aung San Suu Kyi; Aviel, Sara M.; Awlaki, Anwar al-; Axelrod, David; Ayalde, Liliana; Baenig, Brian T.; Bailey, Jean; Bailey, Jonathan W.; Baisden, Michael; Baker, Kristine G.; Bales, J. Malcolm; Balsera, Freddy; Ban Ki-moon; Band, Douglas J.; Bansal, Preeta D.; Barber, Brad; Barker, Constance S.; Barlow, David B.; Barnes, Melody C.; Barr, Joyce A.; Barrera, Janie; Barrows, Walter A.; Barry, Tracy; Bartley, Margaret; Barton, Fredrick; Basescu, Traian; Bass, Hyman; Bassler, Bonnie; Bauer, Shane; Baylis, Jack; Bazan, Andrea; Beck, George L.; Becker, Daniel J.; Beckwith, Corinne A.; Beebe, Michael D.; Bell, Michael P.; Bencivengo, Cathy Ann; Bennett, Dottie; Bentley, Robert J.; Berlusconi, Silvio; Bernanke, Ben S.; Bernard, Barrett; Bernard, Jeremy; Berner, Richard B.; Berns, Peter V.; Berry, Jodi; Berry, John; Bershteyn, Boris; Bersin, Alan D.; Bertini, Catherine A.; Bettaieb, Jamel; Bibb, Leon; Biden, Jill; Biden, Jill T.; Biden, Joseph R.; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.  ; Biden, Joseph, R., Jr.; Bigby, JudyAnn; Bilyeu, Dana K.; bin Laden, Usama; Binder, Rihcard; Bing, David; Bingaman, Jeff; Bingaman, Jesse F. "Jeff", Jr.; Biswal, Nisha D.; Black, Sherry S.; Blackwell, Angela Glover; Blair, Tony; Blake Mora, Jose Francisco; Blake, Robert O., Jr.; Blank, Rebecca M.; Blazs, Robert L.; Bleich, Jeffrey, L.; Blinken, Tony; Blitzer, Wolf; Blitzstein, David; Block, Herbert; Block, Sharon; Bloomberg, Michael R.; Bluhm-Kaul, Barbara; Blumenthal, Gary; Blye, Regina; Boatright, Clay; Bochy, Bruace; Boehner, John A.; Bongo Ondimba, Ali Ben; Bose, Shree; Boyd, Shaun; Bozella, Dewey R.; Brand, Rachel L.; Brennan, John O.; Bresso, Gineen M.; Brett, James T.; Brewer, David V.; Brewer, Janice K.; Broadbent, Meredith M.; Brodie, Margo K.; Brown, Greg; Brown, Nannette J.; Brown, Ricardo; Brown, Valerie; Brzezinski, Zbigniew; Buch, Ronald; Buckles, Frank W.; Buerkle, Ann M.; Buffett, Warren E.; Burns, Douglas; Burns, William J.; Burrows, Patrick L.; Bush, George H.W.; Bush, George W.; Bush, John E. "Jeb"; Bush, Laura; Bush, Mike; Caid Essebsi, Beji; Cain, Timothy M.; Caldern Hinojosa, Felipe de Jesus; Calderon Hinojosa, Felipe de Jesus; Callaghan, Pat; Cameron, David; Cameron, Samantha G.; Campbell, Cindy; Camunez, Michael C.; Cantor, Eric; Cardinali, Daniel J.; Carlisle, Richard P.; Carnahan, J. Russell; Carney, James F. "Jay"; Carson, Brad; Carson, Johnnie; Carter, Andrew L., Jr.; Carter, Ashton B.; Cartwright, James E. "Hoss"; Carusonone, Pia; Castor, Betty; Castro, Marty R.; Cavaco Silva, Anibal Antonio; Chacon, Arnold A.; Chard, David J.; Charney, Scott; Chavez Lamar, Cynthia; Che, Christopher; Chen, May Y.; Chenault, Kenneth I.; Christen, Morgan; Christensen, Dana L.; Christie, Christopher J.; Chu, Steven; Ciara, Barbara; Cigarroa, Francisco G.; Clark, Mike; Clark, Stephen; Clark, Sue; Clegg, Nicholas; Clinton, Chelsea; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, William J.; Clyburn, James E.; Cohen, David S.; Cohen, Steven H.; Cohen, William S.; Coleman, Michael B.; Conde, Cesar; Conner, Bart W.; Contreras, Rudolph; Corbin, Michael H.; Cordero, Laura A.; Corkery, Andrew; Corkery, Christopher; Corkery, Kathy; Corkery, Nicholas; Cornett, Mick; Costa, Gregg J.; Costolo, Dick; Countryman, Thomas M.; Cousens, Elizabeth Malory; Crabtree, David; Creedon, Madelyn R.; Crocker, Ryan C.; Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa; Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; Cruz, Denis J.; Cruz-Correa, Marcia; Cullen, Kevin J.; Culver, Chester J.; Cuomo, Andrew M.; Curiel, Gonzalo P.; Curry, Anne; Curry, Thomas J.; Curtis, Lois; Da, Royale; D'Agostino, Tony; Dalai Lama Tenzin Gyatso; Dale, Kareem; Daley, William M.; Dalrymple, Jack; Dang, Sandy H.; Danielson, David; Davis, Gregory K.; Dayson, Danya A.; de la Torre, Marta Araoz; Deaton, Brady J.; Deese, Brian; Delano, Jon; DeLaurentis, Jeffrey; Dempsey, Martin E.; DeParle, Nancy-Ann; DeRosa, Mary B.; Desai, Anuj C.; Desch, Matt; Devaney, Earl E.; DeWalt, David G.; Di Toro, Jennifer A.; Diaz-Balart, Jose; DiClemente, Albert; DiMarco Johnson, Susan M.; Doerr, John; Donilon, Thomas E.; Dos Santos, Jamie; Drain, Gershwin A.; Droney, Christopher; Du, Miranda; Duchess Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall; Duchess Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge; Duckworth, L. Tammy; Duggin, Thelma; Duncan, Arne; Durbin, Richard J.; Dyer, John H. "Buddy"; Dyer, John H. "Buddy", Jr.; Easterly, Catharine F.; Eberly, Janice; Edelman, Eric S.; Edelsohn, Micki; Eikenberry, Ching; Eikenberry, Karl W.; Eisen, Norman L.; Ejeta, Gebisa; Elbegdorj, Tsakhia; Ells, Barbara J.; Emanuel, Rahm I.; Enersen, Jean; Engelmayer, Paul A.; Ensher, Henry S.; Enzi, Michael B.; Erby, Dennis J.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Ertel, Julie S.; Escobar Alas, Jose Luis Archbishop; Eskelsen, Lily; Espinoza, Galina; Estevez, Alan F.; Ewing, Rod; Fairfax, Kenneth J.; Farmer, Justin; Farrar, Jonathan D.; Fattal, Joshua; Felix, Allyson M.; Felton, Wanda F.; Fergus, Joseph E.; Ferguson, Christopher J.; Ferguson, Roger W., Jr.; Fernandez de Kirchner, Cristina; Fernandez, Giselle; Fernandez, Teresita; Ferrari, Laurence; Festa, Donna; Festa, Patrick, Sr.; Fielding, Jonathan E.; Fields, Leslie; Fitzgerald, Michael W.; Fitzpayne, Alistair M.; Fleischmann, Alan H.; Floyd, Henry F.; Flynn, Terence F.; Ford, Robert S.; Forrest, Katherine B.; Fowlkes, John T., Jr.; Foxall, Horace H., Jr.; Foxx, Anthony R.; Fraga, Luis R.; Fraim, Paul D.; Frank, Steven R.; Freelon, Philip G.; Frye, Jan R.; Fugate, Craig W.; Fugate, W. Craig; Fulton, B. Sue; Funes Cartagena, Carlos Mauricio; Funger, Norma L.; Furman, Jesse M.; Galante, Carol J. ; Gale, Joseph H.; Galindo, Marcos E.; Gallagher, Brian; Gallagher, Daniel M.; Gallogly, Mark T.; Gama, JoAnn; Gamoran, Adam; Gandara, Patricia; Garcia, Millie; Garcia, Norma; Garcia, Roland; Garcia, Terry D.; Gardner, Jim; Garduque, Laurie R.; Gast, Earl W.; Gates, Melinda F.; Gates, Robert M.; Gates, William H. "Bill," III; Gavin, Michelle D.; Gaynor, Judy; Geithner, Timothy F.; Geithner, Timothy M.; Gelser, Sara A.; Gerrard, John M.; Gerstell, Glenn S.; Gerstenblith, Patty; Gibbs, Robert L.; Giffords, Gabrielle D.; Giffords, Gabrille; Gilbert, Nancy B.; Gillard, Julia E.; Gillette, Jodi A. ; Gilliland, Sam; Gilstrap, James R.; Givens, Jessica; Givens, Lance; Givens, Trudy; Glance, Dereth B.; Glaser, Daniel L.; Gleason, Sharon L.; Goldbert, Carole E.; Goldman, John D.; Golick, Roberta; Gomez, Manuel; Gomez-Bassols, Isabel; Gonzales, Albert; Gonzalez Rogers, Yvonne; Goodman, Deborah D. ; Gorenberg, Mark; Gould, W. Scott; Gove, Steve; Grain, David J.; Granger, Robert C.; Gration, J. Scott; Gray, Jim; Gray, Vincent C.; Green, Christina-Taylor; Green, Michael; Greenberg, Jayne D.; Griffin, Richard F., Jr.; Groh, Gina M.; Gruenberg, Martin J.; Guaderrama, David C.; Guen, Terry; Guerra-Mondragon, Gabriel; Guest, Michael; Gupta, Deepa; Gutman, Joseph D.; Guy, N. Gunter, Jr.; Guzman, Ana Margarita "Cha"; Hach, Kenneth; Hackett, Kenneth F.; Hall, Ruby Bridges; Halpern, Sonya M.; Ham, Carter F.; Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani; Hamilton, James; Hammer, Michael A.; Hammond, Tony; Hannah, James R.; Hansen, Joseph T.; Hanson, Mark; Hardiman, Ann; Hardt, D. Brent; Hariri, Sa'ad al-Din al-; Harkin, Thomas R.; Harper, Keith M.; Harper, Stephen; Harrigan, Thomas M.; Harris, Dot; Harris, Joan W.; Hart, Christopher S.; Harvey, Broderick "Steve"; Havel, Vaclav; Hay, Lewis, III; Healy, Tom; Heavey, Kristine L.; Hedges, Larry V. ; Heffern, John A.; Helbling, Casey; Helmick, Jeffrey J.; Helms, Ned, Jr.; Hensarling, Jeb T.; Herda, Larissa; Herman, Richard P.; Hersman, Deborah A.P.; Hickey, Allison A.; Hickey, Susan O.; Higginson, Stephen; Hildreth, Susan H.; Hill, Erica; Hillman de Velasquez, Alison A.; Hillman, Timothy S.; Hinojosa, Ana; Hioki, Warren G.; Hirshberg, Gary; Hodes, Paul W.; Hodge, Lauren; Hodges, W. Terrell; Hoenig, Thomas M.; Hoffa, James P.; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holder, Eric H., Jr.; Hollowell, Michael; Hook, John; Hook, Lisa; Horowitz, Michael E.; Howard, Christopher B.; Howard, Michelle J.; Howorth, Richard C.; Hoyer, Steny H.; Hu Jintao; Hughes, Michael A.; Humala Tasso, Ollanta Moises; Hurley, Douglas G.; Hurwitz, Andrew D.; Hybels, Lynne; Hybl, William J.; Immelt, Jeffrey, R.; Inouye, Daniel K.; Jacks, Tyler; Jackson, Jeanine E.; Jackson, Lisa P.; Jacobson, Roberta S.; Jaffe, Ira F.; James, Sylvester "Sly", Jr.; Jarrett, Valeria B.; Jarrett, Valerie B.; Javits, Joshua M.; Jawando, Alia; Jawando, Michele; Jawando, William; Jealous, Benjamin T.; Jebali, Hamadi; Jeffrey, Deborah J.; Jensen, Dallin; Johanson, David S.; Johansson, Patrik; John, Theresa Arevgaq; Johns, Timothy; Johnson, Clayton D.; Johnson, H. Fisk; Johnson, Jerry L.; Johnson, Jimmie; Johnson, Kevin M.; Johnston, Abbey; Jonathan, Goodluck; Jones, David A.; Jones, Jeffery; Jones, Maurice A.; Jones, Stuart E.; Jordan, Adalberto J.; Joyce, Rosemary A.; Joyner, Tom; Jubayr, Adil al-Ahmad al-; Kahn, Janet R.; Kan, Naoto; Karawan, Gregory; Karimov, Islom; Karpowitz, James F.; Karzai, Hamid; Kasich, John R.; Kate Amara; Katz, Andy; Kautz, Elizabeth; Kavandi, Janet L.; Kelly, Gary; Kelly, Mark E.; Kelly, Scott J.; Keneally, Kathryn; Kenny, Enda; Kent, Cameron; Kent, Roman R.; Kerber, Linda K.; Kerr, Charlotte R.; Kerrigan, Kathleen; Key, John P.; Khouri, Michael A.; Kidd, Joseph D.; Kiir Mayardit, Salva; Killion, Nikole; Kim Jong Il; Kim Yoon-ok; Kim, Jeanette; Kim, Sung Y.; Kimble, Judith; Kindler, Jeffrey B.; King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; King Abdullah II; King Abdullah II ; King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa; King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa ; King, Bob; Knauss, Donald R.; Knight, Ken; Knox, Debby; Koch, Matan; Komorowski, Bronislaw; Kopocis, Kenneth J.; Koran, David W.; Korsmo, Charles R.; Krajesko, Thomas C.; Krauthamer, Peter A.; Kroft, Steve; Krueger, Alan B.; Kubiske, Lisa J.; Kullman, Ellen; Kyl, Jon L.; La Mell, Carl M.; La Russa, Anthony, Jr.; Lafley, A.G.; Lagarde, Christine; LaHood, Raymond H.; Langer, Robert; Langford, Debra; Lau, Constance H.; Lauber, Albert; Lautenberg, Frank R.; Lavrov, Sergey V.; LeCompte, Jenni R.; Lee Myung-bak; Lee, Debra L.; Lee, John Z.; Lefar, Marc; Leibowitz, Jon; Leigh, Amanda; Leno, Jay; Leonard, Mary B.; Leon-Decker, Carla M.; Lerner, Allison C.; Leshner, Alan I.; Levi, Jeffrey; Levin, Fay Hartog; Levine, Jane A.; Levison, Daniel R.; Levy, Maurice; Lew, Jacob L. "Jack"; Lewis, Mary G.; Lewis, Wilma A.; Likins, Rose M.; Lineberger, William C.; Lippert, Dorothy T.; Lippert, Mark W.; Lipsky, Jon; Lipstadt, Deborah E.; Littlefield, Elizabeth L.; Lobo Sosa, Porfirio; Locke, Gary F.; Lomax, Alfred C.; Lombardo, Maria; Loney, Timothy K.; Long, Sharon; Loui, Patricia M.; Lowman, Carol E.; Loy, Frank E.; Lozada, Jacob; Lozano, Monica C.; Lubchenco, Jane; Luck, Jo; Lukens, Lewis A.; Lum, Grande; Lyman, Princeton N.; Lynch, Jill A.; Lyons, Charles "Chip"; Mabus, Raymond E., Jr.; Macmanus, Joseph E.; Mader, Joyce A.; Magidson, Kenneth; Magnus, Sandra H.; Maier, Pauline; Majumdar, Arun; Maliki, Nuri al-; Mandell, Robert A.; Manglona, Ramona V.; Markell, Jack A.; Marquez, Rosemary; Marr, Andrew; Martelly, Michel; Martin, Michel; Martin, Sean C.; Martinelli Berrocal, Ricardo; Martinez, Juanita; Martinez, Lynn; Martinez, Monica R.; Martinez, Vilma S.; Martin-Proctor, Kamilah Oni; Mason, Anthony; Massad, Timothy; Massarone, Charles; Mastromonaco, Alyssa; Mathia, Henry B.; Mattis, James N.; Mattos, Juan, Jr.; Maxman, Susan A.; Mayer-Davis, Elizabeth; Mays, Willie H., Jr.; Mazer, Roslyn A.; Mazur, Mark J.; McAleese, Mary P.; McCabe, John F., Jr.; McCain, John; McCain, John S.; McCarthy, Kevin; McCarthy, Mike; McCartney, Rob; McConnell, A. Mitchell; McConnell, A. Mithcell; McConnell, Charles; McCoy, Drew R.; McCray, Ron; McCulloh, Karen J.; McCullough, I. Charles, III; McCullough, Mathew; McDonnell, Robert F.; McDonough, Denis R.; McFadden-Lawson, Mattie; McFaul, Michael A.; McGarr, Cappy; McGill, Matt; McGovern, Gail J.; McKiernan, Thomas L.; Mckim, Mark; McLeese, Roy W., III; McMillan, David J.; McNulty, David L.; McNulty, Kevin; McQuiston, Barbara K.; McVey, Marty; Mebarak Ripoll, Shakira Isabel; Medine, David; Medvedev, Dmitry A.; Meek, Kendrick B.; Melvin, Kenneth; Melvin, Veronica E.; Menendez, Robert; Menon, Shiv Shankar; Merkel, Angel; Merkel, Angela; Merrill, Christopher; Merten, Kenneth H.; Messina, Jim; Meyer, Dakota L.; Meza, Choco G.; Michael J. Walsh; Michelle, Obama; Mikitani, Hiroshi; Mikkanen, Arvo; Miliband, Edward S.; Miller, Darlene; Miller, Mary J.; Milner, Yuri B.; Mims, Larry "No Limit Larry"; Mitchell, Derek J.; Mitchell, Ernest, Jr.; Moberg, Erik; Mobley, Regina; Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Monaco, Lisa O.; Monti, Mario; Montoya, David A.; Mooney-Hildebrand, Patricia; Moran, Rachel F.; Morela de Pinera, Cecilia; Moreno, Mario Andres; Morgan, Jesse; Morgan, Susie; Morial, Marc H.; Moritz, Lara; Morningstar, Richard L.; Moser, William H.; Moss, Melissa; Moussa, Amr Mohammed; Moy, Richard M.; Mozena, Dan W.; Mubarak, Mohamed Hosni; Mueller, Robert S., III; Mulally, Alan; Mullen, Michael G.; Mulvaney, Sean R.; Murnane, Margaret M.; Muro, Steve L.; Murphy, Donna M.; Murphy, Patrick J.; Murphy, Philip D.; Murray, Ellen; Murray, Patricia L.; Murray, Patty; Murthy, Vivek H.; Myers, Sondra; Nabors, Robert L., II; Nahale-a, Alapaki; ; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; ; McCulley, Terence P.; Namm, Adam E.; Napolitano, Giorgio; Napolitano, Janet A.; Narayen, Shantanu; Nathan, Alison J.; Navarro, Nancy; Nazarbayev, Nursultan; Nazario, Carmen L.; Necas, Petr; Neira, Maria; Ness, Roberta; Ness, Susan; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Newman, Thomas B.; Nguyen, Jacqueline H.; Nguyen, Tung Thanh; Nieves, Lisette; Nixon, Jeremiah W. "Jay"; Noda, Yoshihiko; Norris, Jackie; Nozick, Linda; Nuffer, David O.; Nutter, Michael A.; Obama Michelle; Obama, Malia; Obama, Michelle; Obama, Natasha "Saha"; Obama, Natasha "Sahsa"; Obama, Natasha "Sasha"; Oetken, J. Paul; Ogden, Lisa B.; Ohlhausen, Maureen K.; Ohlson, Kevin A.; Ohno, Apolo Anton; Olopade, Olufunmilayo F.; Olsen, Matthew; Olson, Eric T.; O'Malley, Martin J.; Ondimba, Ali Ben Bongo; O'Neal, Adrienne S.; Ono, David; O'Reilly, Bill; Orlando, Stephanie; Ornish, Dean; Ostendorff, William C.; Otellini, Paul S.; Otto, Barbara; Otunbaeva, Roza; Ouattara, Alassane D.; Owens, Kimberly A.; Pablos-Mendez, Ariel; Padilla, Alejandro Garcia; Page, Susan D.; Pahor, Borut; Pai, Ajit V.; Palacio, Herminia; Palfrey, Judith S.; Palmer, Larry L.; Pane, Martin J.; Panetta, Leon E.; Papademos, Lukas; Papandreou, George A.; Papandreou, Georgios Andreas; Parsons, Richard D.; Pascrell, William J., Jr.; Pasi, Geeta; Pasquarella, Natalie; Pastor, Edward Lopez; Patrick, Deval L.; Patterson, Anne W.; Patterson, Robert E.; Payne, Donald M.; Payne, Jim; Pedroza, Adrian A.; Peebles, Katrina L.; Peer, Scott J.; Pelley, Scott; Pelosi, Nancy; Pensky, Carol; Perdue, Beverly E.; Peres, Shimon; Perez Molina, Otto; Perez, Antonio; Perez, Myrna; Perry, J. Richard; Petraeus, David H.; Petty, Julie A.; Pfeiffer, H. Daniel; Phillips, Mary E.; Pietsch, Coral W.; Pignato, Vanda; Pinera Echenique, Sebastian; Piquado, Paul; Pitman, Robert L.; Plouffe, David; Pollard, William B.; Post, Glen F., III; Potter, Deborah D.; Potter, Lauren E.; Pouley, Theresa M.; Powell, Alma J.; Powell, Colin L.; Powell, Jerome H.; Powell, Nancy J.; Powers, Phyllis M.; Price, Clement A.; Prince Charles, Prince of Wales; Prince Charles, Prince of Wales,; Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh; Prince William, Duke of Cambridge; Pritzker, Penny S.; Pujadas, David; Puzey, David; Qaboos bin Said Al Said; Quagliotti, Marilyn A.; Quan, Jean; Quasula, Ted; Queen Elizabeth II; Quirk, Carol; Rajoy Brey, Mariano; Ramirez, Susana; Ramos, Edgardo; Ramos, Nelva G.; Randall, Linda; Ransom, Richard; Rapoport, Ronald B.; Rasmussen, Anders Fogh; Rasmussen, Lars Lokke; Rawlins-Blake, Stephanie; Raynor, Michael A.; Read, William L.; Reed, Frankie A.; Reed, Kasim; Reed, Richard A.; Reel, Baye "DJ Bee"; Reeve, Cheryl; Reid, Harry; Reid, Harry M.; Replogle, Kristin G.; Restrepo, Daniel A.; Revish, Jerry; Reynoso, Julissa; Rhodes, Ben; Rice, Susan E.; Rice, Thomas O.; Richard, Anne C.; Richard, Stephane; Richman, Ellen S.; Riley, Joseph P., Jr.; Rimer, Barbara K.; Robbins, Mark A.; Robert Mathieson; Roberts, Brian L.; Roberts, Robin; Robinson, Romona; Robles, Darline P.; Rodham Clinton, Hillary; Rogers, Harold D.; Rolinski, Elizabeth; Romo, Ricardo; Rooney, Daniel M.; Rose, Matt; Rosenbaum, Robin S.; Rosenstock, Linda; Rosenworcel, Jessica; Ross, Dennis B.; Rothman, Steven R.; Rouse, Peter M.; Rouse-Terlevich, Mary; Rousseff, Dilma; Rudman, Mara E.; Ruemmler, Kathryn; Ruess, Maria E.; Russell, Angela; Russell, George L., III; Rutherford, Matthew S.; Rutte, Mark; Ryan, Deborah; Ryan, J. Kelly; Ryan, James T.; Rybak, Raymond T., Jr.; Saakashvili, Mikheil; Sabah, Sheikh Khalid al-; Said, Zahraa; Salazar, Kent A.; Saldana, Sarah R.; Salem, Enrique; Salih, Ali Abdallah; Salina, Charles F.; Salisbury, Dallas L.; Saltzman, Robert M.; Samet, Jonathan M.; Sanchez, Manny; Sandberg, Sheryl; Santaniello, Amelia; Santos Calderon, Juan Manuel; Sargent, Anneila I.; Sargsian, Serzh; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Sarkozy, Nicolas ; Sarrafan, Sima F.; Sauer, Joachim; Sawyer, Diane; Schaad, Tom; Schaumber, Peter; Schiliro, Phil; Schlossberg, Edwin; Schmidt, Eric E.; Schonfeld, Julie; Schori, Katharine Jefferts; Schumer, Charles E.; Schwartz, Errol R.; Scillian, Devin; Scolar, Robert N., Jr.; Scott, Beverly A.; Scovel, Calvin L., III; Scribner, Kent P.; Scully-Lerner, Jennifer; Scuse, Michael T.; Seffrin, John R.; Seitz, Virginia A.; Sellers, William; Semonoff, Ellen; Sessoms, William D., Jr.; Sexton, Michael; Shah, Naomi; Shah, Rajiv J.; Shapiro, Carl; Shapiro, Daniel B.; Sharaf, Essam Abdel Aziz; Sharpe, Ronald W.; Sharpton, Al; Sheehan, Michael A.; Shelby, Robert J.; Shelton, Gloria W.; Sherman, Wendy R.; Sherrick, Bruce J.; Sherry, Margaret A.; Shwartz, Patty; Silas, Natasha P.; Silber, Joan E.; Silliman, Scott L.; Silvera, Isaac F.; Simpson, Hal; Singel, Wenona; Singer, Judith D.; Singh, Manmohan; Sisk, William; Six, Stephen N.; Skavdahl, Scott W.; Skelton, Isaac N. "Ike," IV; Smalley, Kirk; Smerconish, Michael; Smith, Daniel B.; Smith, Elizabeth A.; Smith, James B.; Smith, Marie F.; Smith, Russell F., III; Smith, Scott; Smith, Wendi; Snyder, Jim; Solarski, Bob; Solis, Hilda L.; Solomon, Lafe E.; Solso, Tim; Sonenshine, Tara D.; Spencer, Wendy; Sperling, Eugene B.; Sperling, Gene B.; Spitalnik, Deborah M.; Spooner, Edward M.; Spratlen, Pamela L.; Spratt, John M., Jr.; Stancell, Arnold F.; Stanley, Julia; Stanley, Marc R.; Stanton, Robert G.; Steele, Claude M.; Steever, Tom; Stehr, John; Stein, Jeremy C.; Steinberg, Donald K.; Stephanopoulos, George; Stephen M. Case; Stern, Susan K.; Stetson, E. William, III; Stewart, Tony; Stock, Ann; Stogner, Larry; Stoltenberg, Jens; Strommen, Wegger Christian; Sugarman, Lillian; Sullivan, Brian; Sumwalt, Robert L.; Susman, Ellen; Susman, Louis B.; Sutphen, Mona K.; Swider, Susan; Taff, Brian; Tantawi, Mohamed Hussein; Tapper, Jake; Taranto, Richard G.; Tarasiuk, Al; Taub, Robert G.; Tavenner, Marilyn B.; Tefft, John F.; Thacker, Stephanie D.; Tharp, John J., Jr.; Thessin, James H.; Thompson, Trina; Tienda, Marta; Tighe, Kathleen S.; Timberlake, James; Todd, William E.; Torresen, Nancy; Toussaint, Tamara; Trakatellis, Archbishop Demetrios; Triche-Milazzo, Jane M.; Trumka, Richard L.; Tueller, Matthew H.; Tusk, Donald; Tyson, Laura D.; Ulmer, Frances; Unemori, Jeanne; Unger, Howard D.; Unruh, Eric; Unruh, Fern; Valenzuela, Arturo A.; Vance, Jim; VanRoekel, Steven L.; Vergano, Christopher; Verner, Mary B.; Vernon, Gil; Verrilli, Donald B., Jr.; Villaraigosa, Antonio R.; Villarosa, Sharon; Vogel, William L.; Vojkovich, Marija; Volcker, Paul A.; Von Horn, Sharon; Votel, Joseph L.; Wagner, Dave; Wainscott, Kent; Wald, Patricia M.; Walheim, Rex J.; Walker, Linda T.; Walker, Sirdeaner L.; Walkley, R. Barrie; Wallach, Evan J.; Walles, Jacob; Walther, Larry W.; Wamariya, Clemantine; Wanderman, Wendy; Ward, Dave; Ware, Nancy M.; Warren, Michael J.; Watford, Paul J.; Watson, Brad; Wayne, Earl A.; Webb, David B.; Webb, James H.; Wedner, Anne; Weintraub, Elizabeth; Weisberg, Richard H.; Weisenbeck, Marlene; Weiss, Lesley; Wen Jiabao; Werfel, Daniel I.; Wetjen, Mark P.; Wheeler, Carol; Wheeler, Thomas E.; Whidden, Michael; White, Beth; White, Bradford J.; Whitehead, Robert E.; White-Scott, Sheryl; Wiesel, Elie; Wiley, Fletcher "Flash"; Wilkie, Nancy C.; Williams, Aaron S.; Williams, Brian; Williams, David C.; Williams, E. Faye; Williams, Ronald W.; Williams, Yvonne M.; Wilson, Harry J.; Wilson, Mark; Wilson, Nancy L.; Wilusz, Lisa M.; Wimes, Brian C.; Winfrey, Oprah; Witt, Phil; Witte, Owen N.; Wodder, Rebecca R.; Wohlers, Paul D.; Wolf, Robert; Wolin, Neal s.; Woodall, S. Roy, Jr.; Woods, Gregory H.; Yang Jiechi; Yang, Henry T.; Yates, Vicki; Yinglak Chinnawat; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Yopp, John H.; York, Susan; Yoshikawa, Hirokazu; Zack, Arnold M.; Zapata, Jaime; Zapatero, Jose Luis Rodriguez; Zaradari, Asif Ali; Zardari, Asif Ali; Zelikow, Philip D.; Ziadeh, Susan L.; Zimmer, Robert J.; Zimmerman, Gabriel M.; Zipps, Jennifer G.; Zoellick, Robert B.; Zola, Gary P.; Zuckerberg, Mark E. Names: Kim Jong Il.  Subjects:  Connecticut : Disaster assistance; ABC News; ABC, "Good Morning America"; ABC, "Nightline"; Abu Dhabi : Crown Prince; Accountability and Transparency Board, Government; Administrative Conference of the U.S., Advisory Council of the; Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : International diplomatic efforts; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force, commander; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force, commander-designate; Afghanistan : NATO, role; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : Reconciliation efforts; Afghanistan : Terrorism; Afghanistan : U.S. Ambassador; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Afghanistan : United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, compound attack in Mazar-e Sharif; Africa : East Africa, famine and humanitarian crisis; Africa : Economic development strategies, strengthening efforts; Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, Federal; Agriculture, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations; Agriculture, Department of : Food and Agricultural Development, Board for International; Agriculture, Department of : International Food and Agricultural Development, Board for; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services; Air Force, Department of the : Air Force Academy, U.S.; Air Force, Department of the : Air Force Academy, U.S. ; Alabama : Disaster assistance; Alabama : Governor; Alabama : President's visit; Alabama : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Alaska : Disaster assistance; Algeria : U.S. Ambassador; American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development, Institute of ; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Tribal consultation with Federal Government; America's Heritage Abroad, Commission for the Preservation of; Antigua and Barbuda : U.S. Ambassador; Arab States, League of; Arab States, League of : Seretary-General; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board; Arctic Research Commission; Argentina : President; Arizona : Disaster assistance; Arizona : Governor; Arizona : KSAZ of Phoenix; Arizona : President's visit; Arizona : Shootings in Tucson; Arizona : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Arkansas : Disaster assistance; Arkansas : Governor; Arkansas : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Armed Forces, U.S. : Gold Star families, meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military officials, meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Armenia : Nagorno-Karabakh conflict; Armenia : President; Armenia : Relations with Azerbaijan; Armenia : U.S. Ambassador; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Nonproliferation efforts; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) with Russia, expansion; Army, Department of the : General Counsel; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Army, Department of the : Walter Reed Army Medical Center; Arts, National Council on the; Asia : South China Sea, territorial dispute; Asia: East Asia Summit; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, President's Advisory Commission on; Asian Nations, Association of Southeast (ASEAN); Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC); Atomic Energy Agency, International; Australia : President Obama's visit; Australia : Prime Minister; Australia : U.S. Ambassador; Australia : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Azerbaijan : Nagorno-Karabakh conflict; Azerbaijan : President; Azerbaijan : Relations with Armenia; Bahrain : Crown Prince; Bahrain : Democracy efforts; Bahrain : King; Bahrain : Relations with U.S.; Bahrain : U.S. Ambassador; Bangladesh : U.S. Ambassador; Barbados : U.S. Ambassador; Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation; Battle Monuments Commission, American; BBC; Benin : Peace Corps volunteer Catherine "Kate" Puzey, 2009 murder; Benin : U.S. Ambassador-designate; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Black, Charles; Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase From People Who Are; Botswana : U.S. Ambassador; Boy Scouts of America; Boys & Girls Clubs of America; Brazil : President; Brazil : President Obama's visit; Brazil : Rio de Janeiro :: Christ the Redeemer statue; Brazil : Rio de Janeiro :: Cidade de Deus favela; Brazil : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Continuation; Budget, Federal : Deficit and national debt; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2011 budge; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2011 budget; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2012; Building Sciences, National Institute of; Burma : Democracy efforts; Burma : U.S. Special Representative and Policy Coordinator; Business and industry : Automobile industry :: Improvement; Business and industry : Automobile industry :: Strengthening efforts; Business and industry : Global competitiveness; Cabinet : Members, meeting with President; Cabinet : Members, meetings with President; California : Disaster assistance; California : KABC of Los Angeles; California : Presidents visit; California : President's visit; California : Roscoe's House of Chicken 'n Waffles in Los Angeles; Cambodia : U.S. Ambassador; Canada : Afghanistan, Canadian military forces, deployment; Canada : Border with U.S., infrastructure and security; Canada : Economic cooperation with U.S.; Canada : Parliamentary elections; Canada : Prime Minister; Canada : Relations with U.S.; Canada : Trade with U.S.; Canada Permanent Joint Board on Defense, U.S. and; Canadian River Commission; Cancer Advisory Board, National; Cancer Panel, President's; Cape Verde : U.S. Ambassador; Capital Planning Commission, National; CBS : "60 Minutes" program; CBS, "Sunday Morning" program; Central Intelligence Agency; Children and youth : Young adults, meeting with President; Chile : President; Chile : President Obama's visit; Chile : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; China : Minister of Foreign Affairs; China : Premier; China : President; China : Strategic and Economic Dialogue, U.S.-China; China, Congressional-Executive Commission on; Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation; Civil rights : Civil rights movement; Civil rights : Disabled persons, antidiscrimination efforts; Civil Rights, U.S. Commission on; CNN, "The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer"; Colombia : Free trade agreement with U.S.; Colombia : President; Colorado : KCNC of Denver; Colorado : KOAA in Colorado Springs; Colorado : KUSA of Denver; Colorado : Presidents visit; Colorado : President's visit; Columbia : Free trade agreement with U.S.; Commerce, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Commerce, Department of : Import Administration, Assistant Secretary for; Commerce, Department of : Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, National; Commerce, Department of : Secretary; Commerce, international : Free and fair trade; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Unrest; Commerce, international : Group of Eight (G8) nations; Commerce, international : Group of Twenty (G20) nations; Commerce, international : U.S. exports :: Expansion; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Commonwealth of Dominica : U.S. Ambassador; Communications : News media ::  Presidential interviews; Communications : News media :: Journalists, meeting with President; Communications : News media :: Presidential interviews; Communications : News media, Presidential interviews; Communications Commission, Federal; Community Service, Corporation for National and; Congress : Bipartisanship; Congress : Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus; Congress : Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Congress : House :: Congressional Black Caucus; Congress : House Democratic Caucus, Issues Conference; Congress : House of Representatives :: Democratic Leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: House Democratic Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: House Republican Conference; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Congress : Members, meetings with President; Congress : Senate :: Majority leader; Congress : Senate :: Minority leader; Congress : Senate :: Senate Democratic Caucus; Congress : Senate :: Senate Republican Caucus; Congress: Congressional Black Caucus; Connecticut : Disaster assistance; Connecticut : President's visit; Consumer Cooperative Bank, National; Cote d'Ivoire : Democracy efforts; Cote d'Ivoire : Political unrest and violence; Cote d'Ivoire : President; Cote d'Ivoire : Relations with U.S.; Credit Union Administration Board, National; Cultural Property Advisory Committee; Czech Republic : Former President; Czech Republic : Prime Minister; Daley, William M.; Deaths : Awlaki, Anwar al-; Deaths : bin Laden, Usama; Deaths : Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; Deaths : Havel, Vaclav; Deaths : Kim Jong Il; Deaths : Sheikh Khalid al-Sabah; Deaths: bin Laden, Usama; Deaths: Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; Decorations, medals, and awards : Congressional Medal of Honor; Decorations, medals, and awards : Defense Superior Service Medal; Decorations, medals, and awards : National Endowment for Democracy's Democracy Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : Presidential Unit Citation; Decorations, medals, and awards : Purple Heart; Decorations, medals, and awards : SAVE (Securing Americans' Value and Efficiency) Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : Science and Technology, National Medals of; Defense and national security : Border security; Defense, Department of : Acqusition, Assistant Secretary of Defense; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs; Defense, Department of : Combatant commanders, meeting with President; Defense, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Defense, Department of : Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, Assistant Secretary for; Delaware : Disaster assistance; Delaware : Governor; Delaware : President's visit; Democracy, National Endowment for; Democratic Governors, meeting with President; Democratic Party : Democratic National Committee; Denmark : Prime Minister; Department of Defense : Global Strategic Affairs, Assistant Secretary of Defense; Department of Defense : Logistics and Materiel Readiness, Assistant Secretary of Defense; Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal; Development banks and funds : International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Development, U.S. Agency for International; Disability, National Council on; Disaster assistance : Alabama; Disaster assistance : Alaska; Disaster assistance : Arizona; Disaster assistance : Arkansas; Disaster assistance : California; Disaster assistance : Connecticut; Disaster assistance : Delaware; Disaster assistance : District of Columbia; Disaster assistance : Georgia; Disaster assistance : Hawaii; Disaster assistance : Hurricane Irene, Federal assistance; Disaster assistance : Idaho; Disaster assistance : Illinois; Disaster assistance : Indiana; Disaster assistance : Iowa; Disaster assistance : Kansas; Disaster assistance : Kentucky; Disaster assistance : Louisiana; Disaster assistance : Maine; Disaster assistance : Maryland; Disaster assistance : Massachusetts; Disaster assistance : Minnesota; Disaster assistance : Mississippi; Disaster assistance : Missouri; Disaster assistance : Montana; Disaster assistance : Nebraska; Disaster assistance : New Hampshire; Disaster assistance : New Jersey; Disaster assistance : New Mexico; Disaster assistance : New York; Disaster assistance : North Carolina; Disaster assistance : North Dakota; Disaster assistance : Ohio; Disaster assistance : Oklahoma; Disaster assistance : Oregon; Disaster assistance : Pennsylvania; Disaster assistance : Puerto Rico; Disaster assistance : Rhode Island; Disaster assistance : South Dakota; Disaster assistance : Tennessee; Disaster assistance : Texas; Disaster assistance : Utah; Disaster assistance : Vermont; Disaster assistance : Virginia; Disaster assistance : Washington; Disaster assistance : Wisconsin; Disaster assistance : Wyoming; District of Columbia : Air and Space Museum, National; District of Columbia : Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium; District of Columbia : Benjamin Banneker Academic High School; District of Columbia : Capital Area Food Bank; District of Columbia : Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency; District of Columbia : DC Central Kitchen; District of Columbia : Democratic Party event; District of Columbia : Disaster assistance; District of Columbia : Ford's Theatre; District of Columbia : George Washington University; District of Columbia : Georgetown Waterfront Park; District of Columbia : Good Stuff Eatery; District of Columbia : Hearst Television news bureau; District of Columbia : Lincoln Memorial; District of Columbia : Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial; District of Columbia : Newseum; District of Columbia : Walter Reed Army Medical Center; District of Columbia : WRC-TV in Washington; Djibouti : U.S. Ambassador; Drug Control Policy, Office of National :: Deputy Director; Economy, national : Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; Economy, national : Economic concerns; Economy, national : Financial regulations, modernization efforts; Economy, national : Personal finance and financial news writers, meeting with President; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Ecuador : U.S. Ambassador; Education : Bullying, prevention; Education : Elementary and Secondary Education Act; Education : Global competitiveness; Education : No Child Left Behind Act; Education : Postsecondary education :: Affordability; Education : Postsecondary education :: Higher education institution leaders and advocates, meeting with President; Education : Public-private cooperation; Education : School standards and accountability; Education : Standards and school accountability; Education Sciences, National Board for; Education, Department of : Education Sciences, National Board for; Education, Department of : Indian Education, National Advisory Council on; Education, Department of : Secretary; Educational Excellence for Hispanics, President's Advisory Commission; Educational Excellence for Hispanics, President's Advisory Commission on; Egypt : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Egypt : Defense Minister; Egypt : Democracy efforts; Egypt : Human rights issues; Egypt : President; Egypt : Prime Minister; Egypt : Relations with Israel; Egypt : Security cooperation with U.S.; Egypt : Terrorist attack in Alexandria; Egypt : U.S. Ambassador; El Salvador : Metropolitan Cathedral in San Salvador; El Salvador : President; El Salvador : President Obama's visit; Election Assistance Commission, U.S.; Emergency Board No. 243, Presidential; Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Energy : Alternative and renewable sources and technologies :: Promotion efforts; Energy : Battery technology for hybrid automobiles; Energy : Energy efficiency and weatherization :: Homes and buildings; Energy : Fuel efficiency standards, strengthening efforts; Energy : Hybrid and alternative fuel automobiles :: Battery technology, U.S. production; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Fossil Energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy; Energy, Department of : General Counsel; Energy, Department of : Minority Economic Impact, Office of; Energy, Department of : Secretary; Energy, Department of the : Under Secretary of Energy; Environmental Protection Agency : Administrator; Environmental Protection Agency : Assistant Administrator :: Water, Office of; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; ESPN; Eubank, Richard L.; Europe : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Europe : European Union :: Leaders, meeting with President Obama; Europe : Financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Evangelicals, National Association of; Export-Import Bank of the United States; Export-Import Bank, U.S.; Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, President's Advisory Council on; Farm Broadcasting, National Association of; Fiji Islands : U.S. Ambassador; Financial Stability Oversight Council; Fine Arts, Commission of; Fine Arts, U.S. Commission of; Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean, Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory; Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition, President's Council on; Florida : Harp and Celt Restaurant and Irish Pub in Orlando; Florida : Miami Central High School in Miami; Florida : President's visit; Florida : WEAR in Pensacola; Florida : WLTV in Miami; Florida : WSVN of Miami; Florida : WTVT of Tampa; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors, credentialing ceremony; Foreign policy, U.S. : Humanitarian assistance programs; FOX News; France : Defense relationship with U.S.; France : France 2 television; France : Group of Eight (G8) summit in Deauville; France : President; France : President Obama's visit; France : Relations with U.S.; France : TF1 television; Gabon : President; Gabon : Relations with U.S.; Gates, Robert M.; Georgia : Disaster assistance; Georgia : WSB in Atlanta; Georgia, Republic of : Afghanistan, Georgian military forces, deployment; Georgia, Republic of : Economic growth and development; Georgia, Republic of : President; Germany : Chancellor; Germany : U.S. Ambassador; Government organization and employees : Accountability and transparency, strengthening efforts; Greece : Former Prime Minister; Greece : Prime Minister; Greece : Relations with U.S.; Grenada : U.S. Ambassador; Gridiron Club; Guam : President's visit; Guatemala : Democracy efforts; Guatemala : President-elect; Guatemala : U.S. Ambassador; Guinea-Bissau : U.S. Ambassador; Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force; Guyana : U.S. Ambassador; Haiti : President-elect; Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation; Hawaii : Disaster assistance; Hawaii : Hanauma Bay Nature Preserve; Hawaii : President's visit; Hawaii : Sea Life Park Hawaii in Waimanalo; Hawaii : World War II Valor of the Pacific National Monument at Pearl Harbor; Health and Human Services, Department of : Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services; Health and Human Services, Department of : Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health, Advisory Group on; Health and medical care : Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean, Commission for the Conservation and Management of; Hispanic Policy Conference; Historic Preservation, Advisory Council on; Holidays and special observances : Christmas; Holidays and special observances : Diwali; Holidays and special observances : Easter; Holidays and special observances : Halloween; Holidays and special observances : Italy, 150th anniversary of unification; Holidays and special observances : Passover; Holidays and special observances : September 11th National Day of Service and Remembrance; Holidays and special observances : Thanksgiving; Holidays and special observances : Veterans Day; Holocaust Memorial Council, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of ; Homeland Security, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Homeland Security, Department of : Customs and Border Protection, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal; Homeland Security, Department of : Federal Emergency Management Agency; Homeland Security, Department of : Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE); Homeland Security, Department of : National Infrastructure Advisory Council; Homeland Security, Department of : Office of the Inspector General; Homeland Security, Department of : Secretary; Homeland Security, Department of : Secretary ; Honduras : Ambassador; Honduras : President; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Housing; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Housing Commissioner, Federal; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Inspector General; Humanities, National Council on the; Idaho : Disaster assistance; Illinois : Chicago, mayor-elect; Illinois : Disaster assistance; Illinois : Galesburg High School in Galesburg; Illinois : President's visist; Illinois : President's visit; Illinois : Whiteside County Fair in Morrison; Illinois : Wyffels Hybrids, Inc., in Atkinson; Immigration and naturalization : Reform; India : National Security Adviser; India : Prime Minister; India : Relations with U.S.; India : U.S. Ambassador-designate; Indian Law and Order Commission; Indiana : Allison Transmission, Inc., in Indianapolis; Indiana : Disaster assistance; Indiana : WISH of Indianapolis; Indiana : WTHR in Indianapolis; Indonesia : President Obama's visit; Indonesia : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Infrastructure Advisory Commission, National; Institute of Building Sciences, National; Intel Science Talent Search; Intellectual Disabilities, President's Committee for People with; Intelligence Advisory Board, President's; Intelligence, Office of the Director of National; Intelligence, Office of the Director of National : National Counterterrorism Center; Inter-American Foundation; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife; International Development, U.S. Agency for; International Development, U.S. Agency for ; International Trade Commission, U.S.; Iowa : Alcoa Davenport Works in Bettendorf; Iowa : Daily Times Herald of Carroll; Iowa : DeWitt Dairy Treats in DeWitt; Iowa : Disaster assistance; Iowa : Grasshoppers gift shop in LeClaire; Iowa : Kernel Cody's Popcorn Shoppe in LeClaire; Iowa : Maquoketa High School in Maquoketa; Iowa : Meeting with small-business owners in Guttenberg; Iowa : Northeast Iowa Community College in Peosta; Iowa : President's visist; Iowa : President's visit; Iowa : Rausch's Cafe in Guttenberg; Iowa : Ross' Restaurant in Bettendorf; Iran : Detained American citizens, release; Iran : Nuclear weapons development; Iraq : Prime Minister; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Ireland :  U.S. Ambassador; Ireland : President; Ireland : President Obama's visit; Ireland : Prime Minister; Ireland : Relations with U.S.; Ireland : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Israel : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Israel : President; Israel : Prime Minister; Israel : Relations with Egypt; Israel : Relations with U.S.; Israel : Terrorist attack in Jerusalem; Israel : U.S. Ambassador; Italy : President; Italy : Prime Minister; J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board; James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation; Japan : Earthquake and tsunami, damage and recovery efforts; Japan : Embassy in U.S., President Obama's visit; Japan : Nuclear power plants in Fukushima; Japan : Prime Minister; Japan : Prime Minister-elect; Japan : Relations with U.S.; Japan : Security cooperation with U.S.; Jobs and Competitiveness, President's Council on; Jordan : Ambassador; Jordan : King; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and appointments; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and confirmations; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General for National Security; Justice, Department of : Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Bureau of Investigation, Federal; Justice, Department of : Community Relations Service; Justice, Department of : Deputy Administrator of Drug Enforcement; Justice, Department of : Foreign Claims Settlement Commission; Justice, Department of : Inspector General; Justice, Department of : Parole Commission, U.S.; Justice, Department of : Solicitor General; Justice, Department of : Tax Division, Assistant Attorney General; Justice, Department of : U.S. attorneys; Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Coordinating Council on; Kansas : Disaster assistance; Kansas : Osawatomie High School in Osawatomie; Kansas : President's visit; Kansas : We B Smokin' restaurant in Paola; Kazakhstan : President; Kazakhstan : Relations with U.S.; Kazakhstan : U.S. Ambassador; Kentucky : Disaster assistance; Kentucky : President's visit; Kenya : U.S. Ambassador; Kiribati : U.S. Ambassador; Kuntz, William F., II; Kuwait : Amir; Kuwait : U.S. Ambassador; Kyrgyzstan : President; Kyrgyzstan : Prime Minister; Labor issues : Labor 20 (L20) summit; Labor issues : Unions :: America Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO); Labor Relations Board, National; Labor, Department of : Trade Adjustment Assistance program; Lebanon : Democracy efforts; Lebanon : Prime Minister; Lebanon : Relations with U.S.; Lebanon : U.N. Special Tribunal for Lebanon; Legislation, enacted : James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010; Legislation, enacted : Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011; Library of Congress; Library of Congress, American Folklife Center ; Library of Congress, American Folklife Center; Libya : Democracy efforts; Libya : Human rights issues; Libya : No-fly zone :: International military forces; Libya : No-fly zone :: U.S. military forces; Libya : Political unrest and violence; Libya : Political violence and unrest; Libya : Transitional National Council :: Chairman; Libya: No-fly zone :: International military forces; Louisiana : Disaster assistance; Lundquist, Sara; Luxembourg : U.S. Ambassador; Macedonia : U.S. Ambassador; Maine : Disaster assistance; Maine : WCSH of Portland; Malawai : U.S. Ambassador; Mali : U.S. Ambassador; Malta : U.S. Ambassador; Management and Budget, Office of; Management and Budget, Office of : Director; Maritime Commission, Federal; Marshal Service, U.S.; Marshals Service, U.S.; Maryland : Disaster assistance; Maryland : Governor; Maryland : National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda; Maryland : Parkville Middle School and Center of Technology in Baltimore; Maryland : President's visit; Maryland : President's visits; Maryland : Thompson Creek Window Co. in Landover; Maryland : Towson University in Towson; Massachusetts : Disaster assistance; Massachusetts : Governor; Massachusetts : Norman Rockwell Museum; Massachusetts : President's visit; Massachusetts : TechBoston Academy in Boston; Massachusetts: Disaster assistance; Mauritius : U.S. Ambassador; Mayors, United States Conference of; Medal of Science, President's Committee on the National; Medal of Valor Review Board; Mediation Board, National; Merit Systems Protection Board; Mexico : Crime and narcotrafficking; Mexico : Helicopter crash outside Mexico City; Mexico : President; Mexico : Secretary of Government; Mexico : U.S. Ambassafor; Michigan : Doncker's restaurant and fudge shop in Marquette; Michigan : Johnson Controls, Inc., in Holland; Michigan : President's visit; Michigan : WDIV of Detroit; Michigan : WXYZ in Detroit; Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Committee; Middle East : Arab-Israeli conflict, peace process; Middle East : Democracy efforts; Middle East : Gaza, conflict; Middle East : Peace and democracy efforts; Middle East : Quartet Representative for the Middle East; Millennium Challenge Corporation; Minnesota : Disaster assistance; Minnesota : Old Market Deli in Cannon Falls; Minnesota : President's visit; Minnesota : The Coffee Mill restaurant in Zumbrota; Minnesota : Valleyland Kids summer camp in Chatfield; Minnesota : WCCO of Minneapolis; Mississippi : Disaster assistance; Mississippi River Commission; Missouri : Disaster assistance; Missouri : Governor; Missouri : KMBC of Kansas City; Missouri : KSDK in St. Louis; Missouri : Presidents visit; Missouri : President's visit; Missouri : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Missouri : WDAF in Kansas City; Moldova : U.S. Ambassador; Monetary Fund, International; Mongolia : President; Mongolia : Relations with U.S.; Montana, disaster assistance; NAACP; National Medal of Science, President's Commission on the; National Medal of Science, President's Committee on the; National Policy Alliance; National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's; Natural disasters : East coast earthquake; Natural disasters : Hurricane Irene; Natural disasters : Hurricane season, 2011; Natural disasters : Japan, earthquake and tsunami; Natural disasters : Midwest region, tornadoes; Natural disasters : New Zealand, earthquake; Natural disasters : Potential natural disasters, preparedness efforts; Natural disasters : Tennessee, flooding; Nauru : U.S. Ambassador; Navy, Department of the : National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD; Navy, Department of the : Naval Academy, U.S., in Annapolis, MD; Navy, Department of the : Naval Academy, U.S., in Annapolis; NBC, "The Tonight Show"; NBC, "Today" show; Nebraska : Disaster assistance; Nebraska : KETV of Omaha; Netherlands : Prime Minister; Netherlands : U.S. Ambassador; Nevada : KINC in Las Vegas; Nevada : KSNV of Las Vegas; Nevada : President's visit; New Hampshire : Disaster assistance; New Hampshire : Manchester :: Julien's Corner Kitchen; New Hampshire : President's visit; New Jersey : Disaster assistance; New Jersey : Governor; New Jersey : President's visit; New Mexico : Disaster assistance; New Mexico : KOAT of Albuquerque; New York : Democratic Party event; New York : Disaster assistance; New York : General Electric plant in Schenectady; New York : Governor; New York : President's visit; New York : President's visits; New York : September 11 Memorial, National in New York City; New Zealand : Earthquake, damage and recovery efforts; New Zealand : Prime Minister; New Zealand : Relations with U.S.; Nicaragua : Ambassador; Nicaragua : U.S. Ambassador; Nigeria : President; Nigeria : Relations with U.S.; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; North Carolina : Bluestone High School in Skipwith; North Carolina : Boone :: Mast General Store; North Carolina : Boone :: Our Daily Bread bakery; North Carolina : Countryside Barbecue restaurant in Marion; North Carolina : Cree, Inc., in Durham; North Carolina : Disaster assistance; North Carolina : Governor; North Carolina : Jamestown :: Guilford Technical Community College; North Carolina : President's visit; North Carolina : Reid's House Restaurant in Reidsville; North Carolina : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; North Carolina : WCNC of Charlotte; North Carolina : WestStar Precision manufacturing facility in Apex; North Carolina : WFXC of Durham ; North Carolina : WFXK of Durham ; North Carolina : WPEG of Charlotte; North Carolina : WRAL in Raleigh; North Carolina : WSOC of Charlotte; North Carolina : WSOC-TV in Charlotte; North Carolina : WTVD of Raleigh-Durham; North Dakota : Disaster assistance; North Dakota : Flooding, damage and recovery efforts; North Dakota : Governor; North Korea : Chairman; Norway : Ambassador to U.S.; Norway : Prime Minister; Norway : Terrorist attacks in Oslo and Utoya; Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U.S.; Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board; Ohio : Chrysler Toledo Assembly Complex in Toledo; Ohio : Disaster assistance; Ohio : Fort Hays Metropolitan Education Center in Columbus; Ohio : Fred's Pro Hardware in Toledo; Ohio : Governor; Ohio : Presidents visit; Ohio : President's visit; Ohio : Rudys Hot Dog in Toledo; Ohio : WBNS of Columbus; Ohio : WEWS of Cleveland; Ohio : WKYC in Cleveland; Oklahoma : Disaster assistance; Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise, Permanent Committee for the; Oman : Sultan; Open Government Partnership; Oregon : Disaster assistance; Oregon : Intel Corporation in Portland; Oregon : KGW of Portland; Oregon : President's visit; Overseas Private Investment Corporation; Pakistan : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation; Pakistan : Pakistani military forces, casualties; Pakistan : President; Pakistan : Relations with U.S.; Pakistan : Suspected terrorist safe havens; Pakistan : Terrorism; Palestinian Authority : President; Panama : Free trade agreement with U.S.; Panama : President; Panama : U.S. Ambassador; Paraguay : Independence, bicentennial celebration; Paraguay : U.S. Ambassador; Peace Corps; Peace, U.S. Institute of; Pennsylvania : Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh; Pennsylvania : Disaster assistance; Pennsylvania : International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union No. 5 in Pittsburgh; Pennsylvania; Pennsylvania : John's Water Ice in Philadelphia; Pennsylvania : KDKA of Pittsburgh; Pennsylvania : KYW-TV in Philadelphia; Pennsylvania : Pennsylvania State University in University Park; Pennsylvania : President's visit; Pennsylvania : President's visits; Pennsylvania : WPVI of Philadelphia; Pennsylvania : Yeadon Regional Head Start Center in Yeadon; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; Peru : Preisdent; Peru : President; Peru : President-elect; Peru : Relations with U.S.; Philadelphia : WTAE of Pittsburgh; Poland : President; Poland : President Obama's visit; Poland : President, First Lady, and delegation, first anniversary of deaths; Poland : Prime Minister; Poland : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Portugal : President; Postal Regulatory Commission; Preservation of Americas Heritage Abroad, Commission for the; Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad, Commission for the; Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad, U.S. Commission for; Presidential Scholars, Commission on; Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health, Advisory Group on; Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board; Public Diplomacy, U.S. Advisory Commission on; Puerto Rico : Disaster assistance; Puerto Rico : El Nuevo Dia; Puerto Rico : Kasalta restaurant in San Juan; Puerto Rico : La Fortaleza in San Juan; Puerto Rico : President's visit; Puerto Rico : Univision of Puerto Rico; Qatar : Amir; Qatar : U.S. Ambassador; Railroad Passenger Corporation, National (Amtrak); Railroad Retirement Board; Religious Freedom, U.S. Commission on International; Reserve System, Federal; Retirement Thrift Investment Board, Federal; Rhode Island : Disaster assistance; Rio Grande Compact Commission; Romania : President; Russia : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Russia : MS Bulgaria, sinking; Russia : President; Russia : Relations with U.S.; Russia : Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) with U.S., expansion; Russia : Terrorist attack in Moscow; Russia : U.S. Ambassador; Rwanda :U.S. Ambassador; Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation; Saudi Arabia : Ambassador to U.S.; Saudi Arabia : King; Saudi Arabia : Relation with U.S.; Saudi Arabia : Relations with U.S.; Science and technology : 2011 Google Science Fair; Science and technology : Research and development; Science and Technology, President's Council of Advisers on; Science Board, National; Science Foundation, National; Securities and Exchange Commission; Securities Industry Investor Corporation; Securities Investor Protection Corporation; Security and Cooperation in Europe, Commission on; Security Education Board, National; Selective Service Appeal Board, National; Senegal : U.S. Ambassador; Seychelles : U.S. Ambassador; Slovenia : Prime Minister; Smithsonian Institution; Smithsonian Institution : John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts; Smithsonian Institution : John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; Smithsonian Institution, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; Social Security Advisory Board; Somalia : Piracy, abduction and death of U.S. citizens; South Dakota : Disaster assistance; South Korea : Free trade agreement with U.S.; South Korea : President; South Korea : Security cooperation with U.S.; South Korea : U.S. Ambassador; South Sudan : Declaration of independence, ceremony marking; South Sudan : President; South Sudan : U.S. Ambassador; Space program : Aeronautics and Space Administration, National; Space program : Shuttle; Space Station, International; Spain : President; Spain : Prime Minister; Spain : Relations with U.S.; Special Olympics; Sports : Baseball; Sports : Basketball; Sports : Boxing; Sports : Football; Sports : Golf; Sports : NASCAR; Sports : NCAA championship teams; Sports : Pan American Games; Sports : Soccer; St. Kitts and Nevis : U.S. Ambassador; St. Lucia : U.S. Ambassador; St. Vincent and the Grenadines : U.S. Ambassador; Standard & Poor; State Justice Institute; State Legislators, National Conference of; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Public Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary :: Conflict and Stabilization Operations; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for International Security and Nonproliferation; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary of State for Administration; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees and Migration; State, Department of : Deputy Secretary; State, Department of : Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, J. William; State, Department of : Joint Commission, International; State, Department of : Reconstruction and Stabilization Coordinator; State, Department of : Secretary; State, Department of : Secretary; State; State, Department of : Special Adviser to the Secretary for the Gulf and Southwest Asia; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Political Affairs; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy; ; Communications : Broadband technology; ; Decorations, medals, and awards : Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching; ; Disaster assistance : Hurricane Irene, Federal assistance; ; Natural disasters : Hurricane Irene; ; Pennsylvania : President's visit; Sudan : Darfur :: Conflict and human rights crisis; Sudan : Political unrest and violence; Sudan : U.S. Special Envoy; Summit of the Americas; Syria : Democracy efforts; Syria : Political unrest and violence; Syria : Relations with U.S.; Syria : U.S. Ambassador; Taxation : Payroll tax cut; Technology CEO Council; Telemundo; Tennessee : Disaster assistance; Tennessee : President's visit; Tennessee : WREG of Memphis; Tennessee Valley Authority; Terrorism : Al Qaida terrorist group; Terrorism : Al Qaida terrorist organization; Terrorism : Counterterrorism efforts; Terrorism : Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to U.S., assassination plot; Terrorism : September 11, 2001, attacks; Texas : Disaster assistance; Texas : Eastfield College in Mesquite; Texas : El Paso :: Bridge of the Americas; Texas : El Paso :: Chamizal National Memorial; Texas : Governor; Texas : KTRK of Houston; Texas : KXTX in Dallas; Texas : Presidents visit; Texas : President's visit; Texas : WFAA in Dallas; Texas : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Thailand : 2011 Elections; Thailand : Prime Minister-elect; Thailand : Relations with U.S.; Tibet :  Dalai Lama; Togo : U.S. Ambassador; Tonga : U.S. Ambassador; Trade Commission, Federal; Trade Policy and Negotiations, Advisory Committee for; Trade Policy and Negotiations, Advisory Committee on; Trade Policy Negotiations, Advisory Committee for; Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP); Transportation Safety Board, National; Transportation, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions; Treasury, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy; Treasury, Department of the : Comptroller of the Currency; Treasury, Department of the : Economic Policy, Assistant Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Financial Capability, President's Advisory Council on ; Treasury, Department of the : Financial Research, Office of; Treasury, Department of the : Legislative Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Public Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary ; Treasury, Department of the : Terrorism and Financial Crimes, Under Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes, Assistant Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Under Secretary for Domestic Finance; Treasury, Department of the: Secretary; Tunisia : Democracy efforts; Tunisia : Prime Minister; Tunisia : U.S. Ambassador-designate; Turkey : Parliamentary elections; Turkey : Prime Minister; Turkey : Relations with U.S.; Turkmenistan : U.S. Ambassador; Tuvalu : U.S. Ambassador; Ukraine : Chernobyl nuclear power plant, containment efforts; Ukraine : Chernobyl Pledging Conference; Ukraine : Nuclear Energy, Kiev Summit on the Safe and Innovative Use of; United Arab Emirates : Abu Dhabi :: Crown Prince; United Arab Emirates : Armed Forces, Deputy Supreme Commander; United Arab Emirates : Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Deputy; United Arab Emirates : U.S. Ambassador; United Kingdom :  U.S. Ambassador; United Kingdom : Deputy Prime Minister; United Kingdom : Duchess of Cambridge; United Kingdom : Duchess of Cornwall; United Kingdom : Duke of Cambridge; United Kingdom : Duke of Edinburgh; United Kingdom : Globe Academy in London; United Kingdom : Labour Party Leader; United Kingdom : President Obama's visit; United Kingdom : President's visit.; United Kingdom : Prime Minister; United Kingdom : Prince of Wales; United Kingdom : Queen; United Kingdom : Relations with U.S.; United Kingdom : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; United Nations : Children's Fund; United Nations : Economic and Social Council; United Nations : General Assembly; United Nations : Secretary-General; United Nations : U.S. Alternate Representatives for Special Political Affairs; United Nations : U.S. Mission staff, meeting with President; United Nations : U.S. Permanent Representative; United Nations : U.S. Representatives :: Economic and Social Council; United Service Organizations, Inc.; Urban League, National; Uruguay : U.S. Ambassador; Utah : Disaster assistance; Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission; Uzbekistan : President; Uzbekistan : Relations with U.S.; Valles Caldera Trust; Vermont : Disaster assistance; Veterans : Meeting with President in Cannon Falls, MN; Veterans : Service organizations; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Benefits, Under Secretary for; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Education and job training assistance; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Memorial Affairs, Under Secretary for; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Vietnam Education Foundation; Virginia : Arlington National Cemetery; Virginia : Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington; Virginia : Disaster assistance; Virginia : Governor; Virginia : Hampton :: Anna's Pizza and Italian Kitchen; Virginia : Hampton :: Joint Base Langley-Eustis; Virginia : Hampton :: Wood's Orchards Farm Market; Virginia : Kenmore Middle School in Arlington; Virginia : Liberty Tavern in Arlington; Virginia : Northern Virginia Community College in Alexandria; Virginia : Patricia's Child Care Center in Brodnax; Virginia : Presidents visist; Virginia : President's visit; Virginia : President's visits; Virginia : Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria; Virginia : WAVY of Portsmouth; Virginia : Woo Lae Oak Korean restaurant in Tysons Corner; Virginia : WOWI of Norfolk; Virginia : WTKR in Norfolk; Virginia : WVEC in Norfolk; Virginia : WVEC of Hampton Roads; Virginia : WVKL of Norfolk; Voluntarism; Washington : Disaster assistance; Washington : KING of Seattle; Washington : KIRO in Seattle; Washington : Presidents visit; Washington : President's visit; Westwood One Sports; White House American Latino Heritage Forum; White House Conference on Bullying Prevention; White House Office :  Vice President; White House Office : Arts and Humanities, President's Committee on; White House Office : Assistants to the President : National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Communications Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Counselor to the President; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Legislative Affairs; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Press Secretary; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Public Engagement, Associate Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Resilience Policy Senior Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Scheduling and Advance Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Security Adviser, National; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Senior Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Social Secretary; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: White House Counsel; White House Office : Assistants to the Vice President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Chief of Staff; White House Office : Domestic Policy Council; White House Office : Economic Advisers, Council of; White House Office : Economic Council, National; White House Office : Economic Council, National :: Director ; White House Office : Economic Recovery Advisory Board, President's; White House Office : Jobs and Competitiveness, President's Council on; White House Office : Management Advisory Board, President's; White House Office : Presidential Scholars, Commission on; White House Office : Rural Forum, White House; White House Office : Security Council, National; White House Office : Situation Room, 50th anniversary; White House Office : Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's National Security; White House Office : Vice President; White House Office : White House Fellowships, President's Commission on; White House Office : White House Rural Economic Forum; White House Office : Youth Roundtables Initiative, 100; Wisconsin : Disaster assistance; Wisconsin : Orion Energy Systems, Inc., in Manitowoc; Wisconsin : President's visit; Wisconsin : Skana Aluminum Co. in Manitowoc; Wisconsin : Tower Tech Systems, Inc., in Manitowoc; Wisconsin : WISN of Milwaukee; Women's Online Summit; Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; World Bank; World Trade Organization; Wyoming : Disaster assistance; Yemen : President; Young Elected Officials Network; YouTube.com. 