Administration of Barack Obama, 2011 Nominations Submitted to the Senate December 16, 2011 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service Officers. Submitted January 5 Arenda L. Wright Allen, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice Jerome B. Friedman, retired. Anthony J. Battaglia, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice M. James Lorenz, retired. Cathy Bissoon, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas M. Hardiman, elevated. James Emanuel Boasberg, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Thomas F. Hogan, retired. Vincent L. Briccetti, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Kimba M. Wood, retired. Louis B. Butler, Jr., of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Wisconsin, vice John C. Shabaz, retired. Susan L. Carney, of Connecticut, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Barrington D. Parker, retired. Claire C. Cecchi, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Joseph A. Greenaway, elevated. Edward Milton Chen, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Martin J. Jenkins, resigned. Max Oliver Cogburn, Jr., of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, vice Lacy H. Thornburg, retired. Mae A. D'Agostino, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Frederick J. Scullin, Jr., retired. Roy Bale Dalton, Jr., of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Henry Lee Adams, Jr., retired. Sara Lynn Darrow, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Joe B. McDade, retired. Edward J. Davila, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Marilyn Hall Patel, retired. Charles Bernard Day, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Peter J. Messitte, retired. Bernice Bouie Donald, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Ronald Lee Gilman, retired. Edward Carroll DuMont, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Paul R. Michel, retired. James E. Graves, Jr., of Mississippi, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Rhesa H. Barksdale, retired. Caitlin Joan Halligan, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated. Marco A. Hernandez, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Garr M. King, retired.  Paul Kinloch Holmes III, of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Arkansas, vice Robert T. Dawson, retired. Mark Raymond Hornak, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Donetta W. Ambrose, retired. Amy Berman Jackson, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Gladys Kessler, retired. Richard Brooke Jackson, of Colorado, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Colorado, vice Phillip S. Figa, deceased. Steve C. Jones, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Orinda D. Evans, retired. John A. Kronstadt, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Florence-Marie Cooper, deceased. Goodwin Liu, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice a new position created by Public Law 110–177, approved January 7, 2008. Robert David Mariani, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, vice James M. Munley, retired. Marina Garcia Marmolejo, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Samuel B. Kent, resigned. John J. McConnell, Jr., of Rhode Island, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Rhode Island, vice Ernest C. Torres, retired. Sue E. Myerscough, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Jeanne E. Scott, resigned. Victoria Frances Nourse, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, vice Terence T. Evans, retired. Jimmie V. Reyna, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Haldane Robert Mayer, retired. John Andrew Ross, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice Charles A. Shaw, retired. Esther Salas, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Katharine Sweeney Hayden, retired. Diana Saldana, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice George P. Kazen, retired. James E. Shadid, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Michael M. Mihm, retired. Kevin Hunter Sharp, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice Robert L. Echols, retired. Michael H. Simon, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Ancer L. Haggerty, retired. Amy Totenberg, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Jack T. Camp, Jr., retired. Michael Francis Urbanski, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Virginia, vice Norman K. Moon, retired. Kathleen M. Williams, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Daniel T. K. Hurley, retired. Daniel M. Ashe, of Maryland, to be Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, vice Samuel D. Hamilton. Thomas M. Beck, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Elizabeth Dougherty, term expired. Ann D. Begeman, of Virginia, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice Charles D. Nottingham, term expired. Albert J. Beveridge III, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice James Davison Hunter, term expired. Sue Kathrine Brown, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Montenegro. Constance M. Carroll, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Tamar Jacoby, term expired. James Michael Cole, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Attorney General, vice David W. Ogden, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate. Elisebeth Collins Cook, of Illinois, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2014 (new position). Nils Maarten Parin Daulaire, of Virginia, to be Representative of the U.S. on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization, vice Joxel Garcia. Cathy N. Davidson, of North Carolina, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Marvin Bailey Scott, term expired. James Xavier Dempsey, of California, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2016 (new position). Peter A. Diamond, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 2000, vice Frederic S. Mishkin. Kelvin K. Droegemeier, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016 (reappointment). Paula Barker Duffy, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Harvey Klehr, term expired. Aaron Paul Dworkin, of Michigan, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2014, vice Karen Lias Wolff, term expired. Timothy J. Feighery, of New York, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. for a term expiring September 30, 2012, vice Mauricio J. Tamargo, term expired. Maurice B. Foley, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years  (reappointment). Frances M.D. Gulland, of California, to be a member of the Marine Mammal Commission for a term expiring May 13, 2012, vice Vera Alexander, term expired. Janice Lehrer-Stein, of California, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2013, vice Victoria Ray Carlson, term expired. Carolyn N. Lerner, of Maryland, to be Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel, for the term of 5 years, vice Scott J. Bloch, resigned. Terry Lewis, of Michigan, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2011, vice C. William Swank, term expired. Terry Lewis, of Michigan, to be member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2014 (reappointment). Peter Bruce Lyons, of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy), vice Warren F. Miller, Jr., resigned. Cora B. Marrett, of Wisconsin, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation, vice Kathie L. Olsen. Denise Ellen O'Donnell, of New York, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, vice Domingo S. Herraiz, resigned. Stephanie O'Sullivan, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, vice David C. Gompert, resigned. Eric G. Postel, of Wisconsin, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Jacqueline Ellen Schafer, resigned. Leon Rodriguez, of Maryland, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp. Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Michael L. Dominguez. David Bruce Shear, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Daniel L. Shields III, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brunei Darussalam. Pamela L. Spratlen, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. Kathryn D. Sullivan, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Phillip A. Singerman. Clyde E. Terry, of New Hampshire, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2013, vice John R. Vaughn, resigned. Kurt Walter Tong, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Senior Official for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Forum. James A. Torrey, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2013, vice Dianne I. Moss, term expired. Joseph M. Torsella, of Pennsylvania, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. Joseph M. Torsella, of Pennsylvania, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. Andrew L. Traver, of Illinois, to be Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (new position). Michael Vickers, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, vice James R. Clapper, Jr. Martha Wagner Weinberg, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Herman Belz, term expired.  Terence Francis Flynn, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2015, vice Peter Schaumber, term expired. Allison A. Hickey, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Patrick W. Dunne, resigned. Jenni Rane LeCompte, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Michele A. Davis, resigned. Steve L. Muro, of California, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Memorial Affairs, vice William F. Tuerk, resigned. Virginia A. Seitz, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jack Landman Goldsmith III, resigned. Lafe E. Solomon, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, vice Ronald E. Meisburg, resigned. Submitted January 26 Judith A. Ansley, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for the remainder of the term expiring September 19, 2011, vice Ron Silver. Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Dennis P. Walsh. Alan D. Bersin, of California, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice W. Ralph Basham. Donald M. Berwick, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Mark B. McClellan. William J. Boarman, of Maryland, to be Public Printer, vice Robert Charles Tapella, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. Rafael Borras, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Elaine C. Duke, resigned. Matthew J. Bryza, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. David Lee Carden, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Richard Christman, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for the remainder of the term expiring October 6, 2012, vice Tom Osborne, resigned. Mario Cordero, of California, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2014, vice Harold J. Creel, Jr., resigned. Philip E. Coyle III, of California, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Rosina M. Bierbaum. Scott C. Doney, of Massachusetts, to be Chief Scientist of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan. Rebecca F. Dye, of North Carolina, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2015 (reappointment). Norman L. Eisen, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. Robert Stephen Ford, of Vermont, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Syrian Arab Republic, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. Katherine M. Gehl, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2013, vice Collister Johnson, Jr., term expired. Agnes Gund, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Jane D. Hartley, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Donna N. Williams, resigned. Jonathan Andrew Hatfield, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Gerald Walpin. Roberto R. Herencia, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2012, vice Patrick J. Durkin, term expired. Eric L. Hirschhorn, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, vice Mario Mancuso, resigned. Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2012, vice Samuel E. Ebbesen, term expired.  Marguerite W. Kondracke, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring June 10, 2014, vice Richard Allan Hill, term expired.  George Albert Krol, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan. John A. Lancaster, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Matthew Francis McCabe, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2013, vice Leona White Hat, term expired. Michael F. Mundaca, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Eric Solomon, resigned.  John D. Podesta, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Alan D. Solomont, resigned. Michael W. Punke,  of Montana, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Peter F. Allgeier, resigned. Lisa M. Quiroz, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring February 8, 2014, vice Vince J. Juaristi, term expired. Francis Joseph Ricciardone, Jr., of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, of Wisconsin, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Thomas M. Sullivan.  Timothy Charles Scheve, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2015, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired. Phyllis Nichamoff Segal, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2013, vice Jacob Joseph Lew, term expired.  Islam A. Siddiqui, of Virginia, to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Richard T. Crowder. Richard Sorian, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Christina H. Pearson, resigned. Paul M. Tiao, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Labor, vice Gordon S. Heddell, resigned. Juan F. Vasquez, of Texas, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Henry F. Floyd, of South Carolina, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Karen J. Williams, retired. Michael Charles Green, of New York, to be U.S. District  Judge for the Western District of New York, vice David G. Larimer, retired. Ramona Villagomez Manglona, of the Northern Mariana Islands, to be Judge for the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands for a term of 10 years, vice Alex R. Munson, retired. J. Paul Oetken, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Denny Chin, elevated. Nelva Gonzales Ramos, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Hayden Wilson Head, Jr., retired. Natasha Perdew Silas, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Clarence Cooper, retired. Linda T. Walker, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Beverly B. Martin, elevated. Katharine G. Abraham, of Iowa, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Christina Duckworth Romer, resigned. David S. Cohen, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Crimes, vice Stuart Levey, resigning. Heather A. Higginbottom, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Robert L. Nabors, resigned. Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Solicitor General of the U.S., vice Elena Kagan, resigned. Submitted February 2 Paul A. Engelmayer, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Gerard E. Lynch, elevated. Arvo Mikkanen, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, vice Terry C. Kern, retired. Submitted February 3 Jennifer A. Di Toro, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Judith E. Retchin, retired. Donna Mary Murphy, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Kaye K. Christian, retired. Yvonne M. Williams, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Brook Hedge, retired. February 7, 2011 Suzan D. Johnson Cook, of New York, to be Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, vice John V. Hanford III, resigned. Submitted February 14 Henry J. Aaron, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2014, vice Jeffrey Robert Brown, term expired. Jonathan Scott Gration, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya. Michael E. Guest, of South Carolina, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice James William Carr, term expired. Ana Margarita Guzman, of Texas, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice George M. Dennison, term expired. Maj. Gen. Marilyn A. Quagliotti, USAF (Ret.), of Virginia to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice James F.X. O'Gara. Submitted February 16 Timothy M. Cain, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice P. Michael Duffy, retired. Scott Wesley Skavdahl, of Wyoming, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Wyoming, vice William F. Downes, retiring. Submitted February 17 Mari Carmen Aponte, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador. Thomas M. Countryman, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (International Security and Non-Proliferation), vice John C. Rood. Michelle D. Gavin, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Botswana. Thomas M. Harrigan, of New York, to be Deputy Administrator of Drug Enforcement, vice Michele M. Leonhart. Mara E. Rudman, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Sean R. Mulvaney. Ryan C. Crocker, of Washington, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2012, vice Penne Percy Korth, term expired. Sim Farar, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2012, vice John E. Osborn, term expired. William J. Hybl, of Colorado, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2012 (reappointment). Anne Terman Wedner, of Illinois, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Jay T. Snyder, term expired. Submitted February 28 Carl Shapiro, of California, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Cecilia Elena Rouse. Submitted March 2 Felicia C. Adams, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi for the term of 4 years, vice James Ming Greenlee, term expired. Walter A. Barrows, of Virginia, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2014, vice Virgil M. Speakman, Jr., resigned. David V. Brewer, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2013, vice Florence K. Murray, term expired. Nannette Jolivette Brown, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Stanwood R. Duval, Jr., retired. Clayton D. Johnson, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Oklahoma for the term of 4 years, vice Timothy Dewayne Welch, term expired. Wilma Antoinette Lewis, of the District of Columbia, to be Judge for the District Court of the Virgin Islands for a term of 10 years, vice Raymond L. Finch, retired. Alfred Cooper Lomax, of Missouri, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Missouri for the term of 4 years, vice Charles M. Sheer, term expired. S. Amanda Marshall, of Oregon, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon for the term of 4 years, vice Karin J. Immergut, term expired. Charles F. Salina, of New York, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Peter A. Lawrence, term expired. Nancy Torresen, of Maine, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maine, vice D. Brock Hornby, retired. Thomas Gray Walker, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice George E.B. Holding. Submitted March 4 Eric S. Edelman, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term of 4 years, vice Chester A. Crocker, term expired. Daniel L. Glaser, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing, Department of the Treasury, vice David S. Cohen. Jon D. Leibowitz, of Maryland, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for a term of 7 years from September 26, 2010 (reappointment). Robert Patterson, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Turkmenistan. Paul Piquado, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice David M. Spooner, resigned. Submitted March 9 William Francis Kuntz II, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Nina Gershon, retired. Robert William Matheison, of Virginia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia for the term of 4 years, vice John Roberts Hackman. Juan Mattos, Jr., of New Jersey, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of New Jersey for the term of 4 years, vice James Thomas Plousis, term expired. Ronald W. Sharpe, of the Virgin Islands, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of the Virgin Islands the term of 4 years, vice Anthony Jerome Jenkins, resigned. Steve Six, of Kansas, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Deanell Reece Tacha, retired. Submitted March 10 Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years (reappointment). Dereth Britt Glance, of New York, to be a Commissioner on the part of the U.S. on the International Joint Commission, U.S. and Canada, vice Irene B. Brooks. Christopher B. Howard, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of 4 years, vice Kiron Kanina Skinner, term expired. Richard M. Moy, of Montana, to be a Commissioner on the part of the U.S. on the International Joint Commission, U.S. and Canada, vice Samuel W. Speck. Daniel Benjamin Shapiro, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Israel. Submitted March 14 Dan Arvizu, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016 (reappointment). Rear Admiral Jonathan W. Bailey, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to be a member of the Mississippi River Commission. Madelyn R. Creedon, of Indiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of  Defense, vice Michael Nacht. Alan F. Estevez, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (new position). Robert C. Granger, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2014, vice James R. Davis, resigned. Alan I. Leshner, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016 (reappointment). Lewis Alan Lukens, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Senegal, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Ariel Pablos-Mendez, of New York, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Kent R. Hill, resigned. Maj. Gen. Michael J. Walsh, U.S. Army, to be a member and President of the Mississippi River Commission. Paul D. Wohlers, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Macedonia. Submitted March 16 Mary Geiger Lewis, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Henry F. Floyd.  Jane Margaret Triche-Milazzo, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Mary Ann Vial Lemmon, retired. Submitted March 17 Gineen Maria Bresso, of Florida, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2013  (reappointment). Anthony Bryk, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2015  (reappointment). Richard C. Howorth, of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2015, vice Howard A. Thrailkill, term expired. Lisa O. Monaco, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice David S. Kris, resigned. Myrna Perez, of Texas, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for the remainder of the term expiring December 12, 2011, vice Rosemary E. Rodriguez. Myrna Perez, of Texas, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2015 (reappointment). Submitted March 30 Henry S. Ensher, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. Kenneth J. Fairfax, of Kentucky, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kazakhstan. Deepa Gupta, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Submitted March 31 George Lamar Beck, Jr., of Alabama, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama for the term of 4 years, vice Leura Garrett Canary, term expired. Corinne Ann Beckwith, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice Inez Smith Reid, retired. Gary Locke, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of China. David L. McNulty, of New York, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice James Joseph Parmley, term expired. Alison J. Nathan, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Sidney H. Stein, retired. Submitted April 6 Alan F. Estevez, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (new position). Sharon L. Gleason, of Alaska, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Alaska, vice John W. Sedwick, retired. D. Brent Hardt, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. Susan Owens Hickey, of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Arkansas, vice Harry F. Barnes, retired. Donald W. Koran, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Rwanda. Geeta Pasi, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Djibouti. Withdrawn April 6 Alan F. Estevez, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (new position), which was sent to the Senate on March 14, 2011. Submitted April 8 Anuj Chang Desai, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. for the term expiring September 30, 2011, vice Stephen C. King, term expired. Anuj Chang Desai, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. for the term expiring September 30, 2014 (reappointment). Barbara Jeanne Ells, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring October 18, 2016, vice Lisa Genevieve Nason, term expired. Wanda Felton, of New York, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for a term expiring January 20, 2013, vice Linda Mysliwy Conlin, term expired. Deborah Downing Goodman, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring October 18, 2014, vice Jeanne Givens, term expired. David S. Johanson, of Texas, to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission for a term expiring December 16, 2018, vice Charlotte A. Lane, term expired. Cynthia Chavez Lamar, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2016 (reappointment). William Carl Lineberger, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan, term expired. Timothy G. Massad, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Herbert M. Allison, Jr., resigned. Sean Robert Mulvaney, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for a term expiring January 20, 2015, vice Bijan Rafiekian, term expired. James Harold Thessin, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay. Withdrawn April 8 Jonathan Andrew Hatfield, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Gerald Walpin, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted April 14 Jonathan Don Farrar, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua. Stuart E. Jones, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Lisa J. Kubiske, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Honduras. Derek J. Mitchell, of Connecticut, to be Special Representative and Policy Coordinator for Burma, with the rank of Ambassador (new position). William Charles Ostendorff, of Virginia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2016 (reappointment). Robert J. Zimmer, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016, vice Jon C. Strauss, term expired. Submitted May 4 Dana L. Christensen, of Montana, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Montana, vice Donald W. Molloy, retiring. Christopher Droney, of Connecticut, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Guido Calabresi, retired. Dennis J. Erby, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi for the term of 4 years, vice Larry Wade Wagster, resigned. Katherine B. Forrest, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Jed S. Rakoff, retired. John M. Gerrard, of Nebraska, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nebraska, vice Richard G. Kopf, retiring. Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Vaughn R. Walker, retired. Edgardo Ramos, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Stephen C. Robinson, resigned. Robert N. Scola, Jr., of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Paul C. Huck, retired. Edward M. Spooner, of Florida, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Dennis Arthur Williamson, term expired. Ryan C. Crocker, of Washington, personal rank of Career Ambassador, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Anthony Frank D'Agostino, of Maryland, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2011, vice Mark S. Shelton, term expired. Anthony Frank D'Agostino, of Maryland, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2014 (reappointment). Janice Eberly, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Alan B. Krueger, resigned. Thomas Hicks, of Virginia, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2013, vice Gracia M. Hillman, term expired (originally nominated on 4/12/10). Withdrawn May 4 Ryan C. Crocker, of Washington, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2012, vice Penne Percy Korth, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on February 17, 2011. Submitted May 9 Michael H. Corbin, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates. Laura A. Cordero, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 15, 2015, vice Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner, term expired. Jeffrey DeLaurentis, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Jeffrey DeLaurentis, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations. Stephen A. Higginson, of Louisiana, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Jacques L. Wiener, Jr., retired. Jeanine E. Jackson, of Wyoming, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malawi. Barbara K. McQuiston, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (new position). William H. Moser, of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Moldova. Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait. Withdrawn May 9 Paul M. Tiao, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Labor, vice Gordon S. Heddell, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted May 11 Richard G. Andrews, of Delaware, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Delaware, vice Joseph J. Farnan, Jr., retired. Cathy Ann Bencivengo, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Jeffrey T. Miller, retired. Jeffrey J. Helmick, of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice James G. Carr, retired. William J. Burns, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the personal rank of Career Ambassador, to be Deputy Secretary of State, vice James Braidy Steinberg. Submitted May 12 Mark D. Acton, of Kentucky, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2016 (reappointment). Robert G. Taub, of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2016, vice Tony Hammond, term expired. Mark P. Wetjen, of Nevada, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring June 19, 2016, vice Michael V. Dunn, term expiring. Submitted May 16  Terry D. Garcia, of Florida, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce, vice Dennis F. Hightower, resigned. Dan W. Mozena, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Frankie Annette Reed, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Fiji Islands, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga, Tuvalu, and the Republic of Kiribati. Submitted May 18 Morgan Christen, of Alaska, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Andrew J. Kleinfeld, retired. Submitted May 19 David S. Adams, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs), vice Richard Rahul Verma, resigned. Luis A. Aguilar, of Georgia, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2015 (reappointment). Constance Smith Barker, of Alabama, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2016 (reappointment). Andrew L. Carter, Jr., of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Victor Marrero, retired.  Marcos Edward Galindo, of Idaho, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring April 17, 2014, vice Edward Alton Parrish, term expired. Daniel M. Gallagher, Jr., of Maryland, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2016, vice Kathleen L. Casey, term expiring. James Rodney Gilstrap, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice Thad Heartfield, retired. Gina Marie Groh, of West Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of West Virginia, vice W. Craig Broadwater, deceased. John A. Heffern, of Missouri, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia. Harry R. Hoglander, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2014 (reappointment). Gregory Karawan, of Virginia, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2013, vice William Herbert Heyman, term expired. Charles R. Korsmo, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2011, vice Michael Prescott Goldwater, term expired. Charles R. Korsmo, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2017 (reappointment). Patricia M. Loui, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for a term expiring January 20, 2015, vice Diane G. Farrell, term expired. Maria E. Rengifo-Ruess, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring February 4, 2014, vice Julia L. Wu, term expired. John H. Yopp, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2011, vice Raquel Egusquiza, term expired. John H. Yopp, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring October 13, 2017 (reappointment). Susan Laila Ziadeh, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Qatar. Submitted May 23  Joyce A. Barr, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Administration), vice Rajkumar Chellaraj, resigned. Charles Thomas Massarone, of Kentucky, to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission for a term of 6 years, vice Edward F. Reilly, Jr., resigned. Anne W. Patterson, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, personal rank of Career Ambassador, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Arab Republic of Egypt. Claude M. Steele, of New York, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2014, vice Elizabeth Hoffman, term expired. Submitted May 26 Kathleen Kerrigan, of Massachusetts, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for the term of 15 years, vice Harry A. Haines, term expired. Albert G. Lauber, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for the term of 15 years, vice Stephen J. Swift, resigned. Ronald David McCray, of Texas, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2012, vice Andrew Saul, resigned. Ronald David McCray, of Texas, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2016 (reappointment). Leon E. Panetta, of California, to be Secretary of Defense, vice Robert M. Gates. David H. Petraeus, of New Hampshire, to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice Leon E. Panetta. Arnold F. Stancell, of Connecticut, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2014, vice Barry C. Barish, term expired. Submitted June 7 Margo Kitsy Brodie, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Allyne R. Ross, retired. Jesse M. Furman, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Alvin K. Hellerstein, retired. Susie Morgan, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. Mary Elizabeth Phillips, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Ortrie D. Smith, retired. Submitted June 9 Arnold A. Chacon, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guatemala. Christopher Merrill, of Iowa, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Iris Love, term expired. Earl Anthony Wayne, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, personal rank of Career Ambassador, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mexico. Rebecca R. Wodder, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, vice Thomas L. Strickland, resigned. Withdrawn June 9 Peter A. Diamond, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 2000, vice Frederic S. Mishkin, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 2011. Submitted June 13 Martin J. Gruenberg, of Maryland, to be Chairperson of the Board  of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of 5 years, vice Sheila C. Bair, resigned. Martin J. Gruenberg, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of  Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term  expiring December 27, 2018 (reappointment). Kenneth J. Kopocis, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Peter  Silva Silva, resigned. Submitted June 16 John Edgar Bryson, of California, to be Secretary of Commerce, vice Gary Locke. Submitted June 22 Brian T. Baenig, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Krysta Harden. Margaret Bartley, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims for the term of 15 years, vice a new position created by Public Law 110–389, approved October 10, 2008. Mary Beth Leonard, of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali. Gloria Wilson Shelton, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims for the term of 15 years, vice a new position created by Public Law 110–389, approved October 10, 2008. Submitted June 23 Steven R. Frank, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania for the term of 4 years, vice Thomas M. Fitzgerald, term expired. Jennifer Guerin Zipps, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice John M. Roll, deceased. Rosemary Marquez, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Frank R. Zapata, retired. Martin J. Pane, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Pennsylvania for the term of 4 years, vice Michael Robert Regan, term expired. David Blake Webb, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for the term of 4 years, vice Gary Edward Shovlin, resigned. Submitted June 27 Sung Y. Kim, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea. Adrienne S. O'Neal, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cape Verde. S. Roy Woodall, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council for a term of 6 years (new position). Submitted June 28 John Malcolm Bales, of Texas, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Rebecca A. Gregory, resigned. Kenneth Magidson, of Texas, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Donald J. DeGabrielle, Jr., resigned. Robert Lee Pitman, of Texas, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Johnny Keane Sutton, term expired. Sarah Ruth Saldana, of Texas, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Richard B. Roper III, resigned. Submitted June 29 Gregory K. Davis, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi for the term of 4 years, vice Dunn Lampton, resigned. David Nuffer, of Utah, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Utah, vice Dale A. Kimball, retired. Thomas Owen Rice, of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Washington, vice Robert H. Whaley, retired. Submitted June 30 Deborah A.P. Hersman, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years (reappointment). Thomas Charles Krajeski,  of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Bahrain. Robert A. Mandell, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg. Submitted July 5 Thomas J. Curry, of Massachusetts, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of 5 years, vice John C. Dugan, resigned. Mary John Miller, of Maryland, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Jeffrey Alan Goldstein. Matthew G. Olsen, of Maryland, to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice Michael E. Leiter, resigned. Wendy Ruth Sherman, of Maryland, to be an Under Secretary of State (Political Affairs), vice William J. Burns, resigned. Submitted July 11 Danya Ariel Dayson, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Stephanie Duncan-Peters, retired. Joseph H. Gale, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Michael A. Hammer, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Public Affairs), vice Philip J. Crowley, resigned. Peter Arno Krauthamer, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice John Henry Bayly, Jr., retired. John Francis McCabe, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice James E. Boasberg, resigned. Charles DeWitt McConnell, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice James J. Markowsky, resigned. Submitted July 12 Matan Aryeh Koch, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2013, vice Carol Jean Reynolds, term expired. Stephanie Orlando, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for the remainder of the term expiring September 17, 2011, vice Heather McCallum, resigned. Stephanie Orlando, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted July 18 Richard Cordray, of Ohio, to be Director, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection for a term of 5 years  (new position). Chester John Culver, of Iowa, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Julia Bartling. David A. Montoya, of Texas, to be Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Kenneth M. Donohue, Sr., resigned. Bruce J. Sherrick, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Glen Klippenstein. Submitted July 20 Michael Walter Fitzgerald, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice A. Howard Matz, retired. Submitted July 21 Roslyn Ann Mazer, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security, vice Richard L. Skinner, resigned. Maureen K. Ohlhausen, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for a term of 7 years from September 26, 2011, vice William E. Kovacic, term expiring. Submitted July 22 Mary B. DeRosa, of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Frank E. Loy, of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Kendrick B. Meek, of Florida, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. James T. Ryan, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2013, vice James Broaddus, resigned. Larry W. Walther, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2013, vice J. Joseph Grandmaison, term expired. Submitted July 26 Robert S. Mueller III, of California, to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a term expiring September 4, 2013 (reappointment). Submitted July 28 Ronnie Abrams, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Lewis A. Kaplan, retired.       Rudolph Contreras, of Virginia, to be U.S. District  Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Ricardo M. Urbina, retired. David T. Danielson, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy), vice Catherine Radford Zoi, resigned. LaDoris Guess Harris, of Georgia, to be Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact, Department of Energy, vice Jose Antonio Garcia, resigned. Evan Jonathan Wallach, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Arthur Gajarsa, retiring. Submitted July 29 Michael E. Horowitz, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Justice, vice Glenn A. Fine, resigned. Anneila I. Sargent, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016, vice Gerald Wayne Clough, term expired. Withdrawn July 29 Goodwin Liu, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice a new position created by Public Law 110–177, approved January 7, 2008, which was sent to the Senate on  January 5, 2011. Barbara K. McQuiston, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (new position), which was sent to the Senate on May 9, 2011. Michael F. Mundaca,  of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Eric Solomon, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted August 2 David B. Barlow, of Utah, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Utah for the term of 4 years, vice Brett L. Tolman, term expired. Ashton B. Carter, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense, vice William J. Lynn III. Miranda Du, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Roger L. Hunt, retired. Catharine Friend Easterly, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice A. Noel Anketell Kramer, retired. Adalberto Jose Jordan, of Florida, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Susan H. Black, retired. Irvin Charles McCullough III, of Maryland, to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, Office of the Director of National Intelligence (new position). Ernest Mitchell, Jr., of California, to be Administrator of the U.S. Fire Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Kelvin James Cochran, resigned. Nancy Maria Ware, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia for a term of 6 years, vice Paul A. Quander, Jr., term expired. Gregory Howard Woods, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice Scott Blake Harris, resigned. Withdrawn August 2 Leon Rodriguez, of Maryland, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 2011. Submitted September 6 Catherine Allgor, of California, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2014, vice John Richard Petrocik, term expired. Eduardo Arriola, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2016, vice Kay Kelley Arnold, term expired. Sara Margalit Aviel, of California, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 2 years, vice Ana M. Guevara. Daniel J. Becker, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2013 (reappointment). Dana Katherine Bilyeu, of Nevada, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2015 (reappointment). Mark Francis Brzezinski, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Sweden. Steven H. Cohen, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2013, vice Luis D. Rovira, term expired. Albert DiClemente, of Delaware, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years (reappointment). James R. Hannah, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2013 (reappointment). David Avren Jones, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2014, vice Alejandro Modesto Sanchez, resigned. Michael A. Khouri, of Kentucky, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2016 (reappointment). Alan B. Krueger, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Austan Dean Goolsbee, resigned. Drew R. McCoy, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring January 27, 2016 (reappointment). David J. McMillan, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Scott Kevin Walker. Adam E. Namm, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador. Susan Denise Page, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Sudan. J. Kelly Ryan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 20, 2012, vice Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., resigned. Wenona Singel, of Michigan, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Jack Edwin McGregor. Mary B. Verner, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2012, vice Steve M. Hays, term expired. Mary B. Verner, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2015 (reappointment). Michael James Warren, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted September 8 Cyrus Amir-Mokri, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Michael S. Barr, resigned.  Cyrus Amir-Mokri, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of 3 years, vice David George Nason, term expired. Kathryn Keneally, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Nathan J. Hochman, resigned. Gregg Jeffrey Costa, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice John D. Rainey, retired. Stephanie Dawn Thacker, of West Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice M. Blane Michael, deceased. Submitted September 14 Michael Anthony McFaul, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Russian Federation. David Campos Guaderrama, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Texas, vice David Briones, retired. Submitted September 15 Ronald Lee Buch, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice David Laro, term expired. Brad Carson, of Oklahoma, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Benedict S. Cohen, resigned. Alastair M. Fitzpayne, of Maryland, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Kim N. Wallace. Kevin A. Ohlson, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces or the term of 15 years to expire on the date prescribed by law, vice Andrew S. Effron, term expiring. Submitted September 19 Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Russ Carnahan, of Missouri, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Submitted September 22 Michael A. Hughes, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 4 years, vice Stephen Thomas Conboy, resigned. Jacqueline H. Nguyen, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice a new position created by Public Law 110–177, approved January 7, 2008. Brian C. Wimes, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri, vice Nanette K. Laughrey, retired. Submitted September 23 Maurice A. Jones, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Ronald C. Sims, retired. Matthew S. Rutherford, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Mary John Miller. Submitted September 26 Gary Blumenthal, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2013 (reappointment). Susan A. Maxman, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2012, vice William Hardiman, term expired. Susan A. Maxman, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2015 (reappointment). Submitted October 3 Earl W. Gast, of California, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Katherine Almquist, resigned. Roberta S. Jacobson, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Western Hemisphere Affairs), vice Arturo A. Valenzuela, resigned. James T. Ryan, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2013, vice James Broaddus, resigned. Michael T. Scuse, of Delaware, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, vice James W. Miller, resigned. Michael T. Scuse, of Delaware, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice James W. Miller, resigned. Withdrawn October 3 Terry D. Garcia, of Florida, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce, vice Dennis F. Hightower, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on May 16, 2011. James T. Ryan, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2013, vice James Broaddus, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 22, 2011. Submitted October 5 Patty Shwartz, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Maryanne Trump Barry, retired. Submitted October 11 Adam Gamoran, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2015 (reappointment). Judith D. Singer, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2014, vice Carol D'Amico, term expired. James Timberlake, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2014, vice Jose Teran, term expired. Submitted October 12 Elizabeth M. Cousens, of Washington, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Elizabeth M. Cousens, of Washington, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Paul W. Hodes, of New Hampshire, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2016 (reappointment). ounselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Togolese Republic. Submitted October 20 Bonnie L. Bassler, of New Jersey, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation for a term expiring May 10, 2016, vice Steven C. Beering, term expired.  David James Chard, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2015, vice Jonathan Baron, term expiring.  Carol J. Galante, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice David H. Stevens, resigned.  Larry V. Hedges, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2015, vice Frank Philip Handy, term expiring.  Thomas Hoenig, of Missouri, to be Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, vice Martin J. Gruenberg.  Thomas Hoenig, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Thomas J. Curry, term expired.  Carla M. Leon-Decker, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring August 2, 2017, vice Gigi Hyland, term expired.  Mark William Lippert, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Wallace C. Gregson, resigned.  Hirokazu Yoshikawa, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2015, vice Sally Epstein Shaywitz, term expiring. Withdrawn October 31 Charles Bernard Day, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Peter J. Messitte, retired, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 2011. Submitted November 1 Rebecca M. Blank, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce, vice Dennis F. Hightower, resigned. Thomas Hoenig, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term of 6 years, vice Thomas J. Curry, term expired. Ajit Varadaraj Pai, of Kansas, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2011, vice Meredith Attwell Baker, term expired. Larry Leon Palmer, of Georgia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Coral Wong Pietsch, of Hawaii, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims for the term of 15 years, vice William P. Greene, Jr., retired. Jessica Rosenworcel, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2010, vice Michael Joseph Copps, term expired. Michael A. Sheehan, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Michael G. Vickers. Withdrawn November 1 Thomas Hoenig, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Thomas J. Curry, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on October 20, 2011. Submitted November 2 Kristine Gerhard Baker, of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, vice James M. Moody, retired. Andrew David Hurwitz, of Arizona, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Mary M. Schroeder, retiring. Submitted November 8 Meredith M. Broadbent, of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission for a term expiring June 16, 2017, vice Deanna Tanner Okun, term expired. Anne Claire Richard, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Eric P. Schwartz, resigned. Tara D. Sonenshine, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice Judith A. McHale. Submitted November 10 Gonzalo P. Curiel, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Thomas J. Whelan, retired. John Z. Lee, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice David H. Coar, retired. William B. Pollard III, of New York, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Military Commission Review (new position). George Levi Russell III, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Peter J. Messitte, retired. Scott L. Silliman, of North Carolina, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Military Commission Review (new position). Richard Gary Taranto, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Paul R. Michel, retired. John J. Tharp, Jr., of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Blanche M. Manning, retired. Withdrawn November 10 Edward Carroll DuMont, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Paul R. Michel, retired, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 2011. Submitted November 15 Deborah J. Jeffrey, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Gerald Walpin. Mark J. Mazur, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Michael F. Mundaca, resigned. Submitted November 17 Gershwin A. Drain, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Bernard A. Friedman, retired. Roy Wallace McLeese III, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice Vanessa Ruiz, retired. Submitted November 18 Sara A. Gelser, of Oregon, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2014 (reappointment). Margaret Ann Sherry, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice David L. Norquist, resigned. Submitted November 30 Timothy S. Hillman, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Nancy Gertner, retired. Robin S. Rosenbaum, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Alan S. Gold, retired. Robert J. Shelby, of Utah, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Utah, vice Tena Campbell, retired. Frederick D. Barton, of Maine, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Conflict and Stabilization Operations), vice Bradford R. Higgins. Frederick D. Barton, of Maine, to be Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization (new position). Arunava Majumdar, of California, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned. Marie F. Smith, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2016, vice Dana K. Bilyeu, term expired. Submitted December 1 Marilyn B. Tavenner, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Donald M. Berwick, resigned. Withdrawn December 1 Donald M. Berwick, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Mark B. McClellan, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted December 5 Jonathan Don Farrar, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama. Tony Hammond, of Missouri, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring October 14, 2012, vice Dan Gregory Blair, resigned. Joseph E. Macmanus, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Joseph E. Macmanus, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador. Pauline R. Maier, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring November 17, 2017, vice J. C. A. Stagg, term expired. Phyllis Marie Powers, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua. Mark A. Robbins, of California, to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of 7 years expiring March 1, 2018, vice Mary M. Rose, term expired. William E. Todd, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia. Withdrawn December 5 Jonathan Don Farrar, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua, which was sent to the Senate on April 14, 2011.  Submitted December 15 Sharon Block, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Craig Becker. Rachel L. Brand, of Iowa, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2017 (new position). Richard F. Griffin, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2016, vice Wilma B. Liebman, term expired. David Medine, of Maryland, to be Chairman and member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2012 (new position). David Medine, of Maryland, to be Chairman and member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2018 (reappointment). Michael A. Raynor, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Benin. Patricia M. Wald, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2013 (new position). Jacob Walles, of Delaware, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Tunisian Republic. Withdrawn December 15 Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Dennis P. Walsh, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted December 16 Richard B. Berner, of Massachusetts, to be Director, Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury, for a term of 6 years (new position). John Thomas Fowlkes, Jr., of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Bernice B. Donald, elevated.  Kevin McNulty,  of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Garrett E. Brown, Jr., retiring.  Nancy J. Powell, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, personal rank of Career Ambassador, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to India.  Withdrawn December 16 Richard Sorian, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Christina H. Pearson, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011.  Names: Aaron, Henry J.; Abraham, Katharine G.; Abrams, Ronnie; Acton, Mark D.; Adams, David S.; Adams, Felicia C.; Aguilar, Luis A.; Allen, Arenda L.W.; Allgor, Catherine; Amir-Mokri, Cyrus; Andrews, Richard G.; Ansley, Judith A.; Aponte, Mari C.; Arriola, Eduardo; Arvizu, Dan; Ashe, Daniel M.; Aviel, Sara M.; Baenig, Brian T.; Bailey, Jonathan W.; Baker, Kristine G.; Bales, John M.; Barker, Constance S.; Barlow, David B.; Barr, Joyce A.; Barrows, Walter A.; Bartley, Margaret; Barton, Frederick D.; Bassler, Bonnie L.; Battaglia, Anthony J.; Beck, George L., Jr.; Beck, Thomas M.; Becker, Craig; Becker, Daniel J.; Beckwith, Corinne A.; Begeman, Ann D.; Bencivengo, Cathy Anne; Bernanke, Ben S.; Berner, Richard B.; Bersin, Alan D.; Berwick, Donald M.; Beveridge, Albert J., III; Bilyeu, Dana K.; Bissoon, Cathy; Blank, Rebecca M.; Block, Sharon; Blumenthal, Gary; Boarman, William J.; Boasberg, James E.; Borras, Rafael; Brand, Rachel L.; Bresso, Gineen M.; Brewer, David V.; Briccetti, Vincent L.; Broadbent, Meredith M.; Brodie, Margo K.; Brown, Nannette J.; Brown, Sue K.; Bryk, Anthony; Bryson, John E.; Bryza, Matthew J.; Brzezinski, Mark F.; Buch, Ronald L.; Buerkle, Ann M.; Burns, William J.; Butler, Louis B., Jr.; Cain, Timothy M.; Carden, David L.; Carnahan, J. Russell; Carney, Susan L.; Carroll, Constance M.; Carson, Brad; Carter, Andrew L., Jr.; Carter, Ashton B.; Cecchi, Claire C.; Chacon, Arnold A.; Chard, David J.; Chen, Edward M.; Christen, Morgan; Christensen, Dana L.; Christman, Richard; Cogburn, Max O., Jr.; Cohen, David S.; Cohen, Steven H.; Cole, James M.; Contreras, Rudolph; Cook, Elisebeth C.; Corbin, Michael H.; Cordero, Laura A.; Cordero, Mario; Cordray, Richard A.; Costa, Gregg J.; Countryman, Thomas M.; Cousens, Elizabeth M.; Coyle, Philip E., III; Creedon, Madelyn R.; Crocker, Ryan C.; Culver, Chester J.; Curiel, Gonzalo P.; Curry, Thomas J.; D'Agostino, Anthony F.; D'Agostino, Mae A.; Dalton, Roy B., Jr.; Danielson, David T.; Darrow, Sara L.; Daulaire, Nils M.P.; Davidson, Cathy N.; Davila, Edward J.; Davis, Gregory K.; Day, Charles B.; Dayson, Danya A.; DeLaurentis, Jeffrey; Dempsey, James X.; DeRosa, Mary B.; Desai, Anuj C.; Di Toro, Jennifer A.; Diamond, Peter A.; DiClemente, Albert; Donald, Bernice B.; Doney, Scott C.; Drain, Gershwin A.; Droegemeier, Kelvin K.; Droney, Christopher; Du, Miranda; Duffy, Paula B.; DuMont, Edward C.; Dworkin, Aaron P.; Dye, Rebecca F.; Easterly, Catharine F.; Eberly, Janice; Edelman, Eric S.; Eisen, Norman L.; Ells, Barbara J.; Engelmayer, Paul A.; Ensher, Henry S.; Erby, Dennis J.; Estevez, Alan F.; Estevez, Alan R.; Fairfax, Kenneth J.; Farar, Sim; Farrar, Jonathan D.; Feighery, Timothy J.; Felton, Wanda; Fitzgerald, Michael W.; Fitzpayne, Alastair M.; Floyd, Henry F.; Flynn, Terence F.; Foley, Maurice B.; Ford, Robert S.; Forrest, Katherine B.; Fowlkes, John T., Jr.; Frank, Steven R.; Furman, Jesse M.; Galante, Carol J.; Gale, Joseph H.; Galindo, Marcos E.; Gallagher, Daniel M., Jr.; Gamoran, Adam; Garcia, Terry D.; Gast, Earl W.; Gavin, Michelle D.; Gehl, Katherine M.; Gelser, Sara A.; Gerrard, John M.; Gilstrap, James R.; Glance, Dereth B.; Glaser, Daniel L.; Gleason, Sharon L.; Gonzalez Rogers, Yvonne; Goodman, Deborah D.; Granger, Robert C.; Gration, J. Scott; Graves, James E., Jr.; Green, Michael C.; Griffin, Michael A., Jr.; Groh, Gina M.; Gruenberg, Martin J.; Guaderrama, David C.; Guest, Michael E.; Gulland, Frances M.D.; Gund, Agnes; Gupta, Deepa; Guzman, Ana M.; Halligan, Caitlin J.; Hammer, Michael A.; Hammond, Tony; Hannah, James R.; Hardt, D. Brent; Harrigan, Thomas M.; Harris, LaDoris G.; Hartley, Jane D.; Hatfield, Jonathan A.; Hedges, Larry V.; Heffern, John A.; Helmick, Jeffrey J.; Herencia, Roberto R.; Hernandez, Marco A.; Hersman, Deborah A.P.; Hickey, Allison A.; Hickey, Susan O.; Hicks, Thomas; Higginbottom, Heather A.; Higginson, Stephen A.; Hillman, Timothy S.; Hirschhorn, Eric L.; Hodes, Paul W.; Hoenig, Thomas; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holmes, Paul Kinloch, III; Hornak, Mark R.; Horowitz, Michael E.; Howard, Christopher B.; Howorth, Richard C.; Hughes, Michael A.; Hurwitz, Andrew D.; Hybl, William J.; Jackson, Amy B.; Jackson, Jeanine E.; Jackson, Richard B.; Jacobson, Roberta S.; Jeffrey, Deborah J.; Johanson, David S.; Johnson Cook, Suzan D.; Johnson, Clayton D.; Jones, David A.; Jones, Maurice A.; Jones, Steve C.; Jones, Stuart E.; Jordan, Adalberto J.; Karawan, Gregory; Keneally, Kathryn; Kennedy, Matthew M.T.; Kerrigan, Kathleen; Khouri, Michael A.; Kim, Sung Y.; Koch, Matan A.; Kondracke, Marguerite W.; Kopocis, Kenneth J.; Koran, Donald W.; Korsmo, Charles R.; Krajeski, Thomas C.; Krauthamer, Peter A.; Krol, George A.; Kronstadt, John A.; Krueger, Alan B.; Kubiske, Lisa J.; Kuntz, William F., II; Lamar, Cynthia C.; Lancaster, John A.; Lauber, Albert G.; LeCompte, Jenni R.; Lee, John Z.; Lehrer-Stein, Janice; Leibowitz, Jon D.; Leonard, Mary B.; Leon-Decker, Carla M.; Lerner, Carolyn N.; Leshner, Alan I.; Lewis, Mary G.; Lewis, Terry; Lewis, Wilma A.; Lineberger, William C.; Lippert, Mark W.; Liu, Goodwin; Locke, Gary F.; Lomax, Alfred C.; Loui, Patricia M.; Loy, Frank E.; Lukens, Lewis A.; Lyons, Peter B.; Macmanus, Joseph E.; Magidson, Kenneth; Maier, Pauline R.; Majumdar, Arunava; Mandell, Robert A.; Manglona, Ramona V.; Mariani, Robert D.; Marmolejo, Marina G.; Marquez, Rosemary; Marrett, Cora B.; Marshall, S. Amanda; Massad, Timothy G.; Massarone, Charles T.; Matheison, Robert W.; Mattos, Juan, Jr.; Maxman, Susan A.; Mazer, Roslyn A.; Mazur, Mark J.; McCabe, John F.; McCabe, Matthew F.; McConnell, Charles D.; McConnell, John J., Jr.; McCoy, Drew R.; McCray, Ronald D.; McCullough, Irvin C., III; McFaul, Michael A.; McLeese, Roy W., III; McMillan, David J.; McNulty, David L.; McNulty, Kevin; McQuiston, Barbara K.; Medine, David; Meek, Kendrick B.; Merrill, Christopher; Mikkanen, Arvo; Miller, Mary J.; Mitchell, Derek J.; Mitchell, Ernest, Jr.; Monaco, Lisa O.; Montoya, David A.; Morgan, Susie; Moser, William H.; Moy, Richard M.; Mozena, Dan W.; Mueller, Robert S., III; Mulvaney, Sean R.; Mundaca, Michael F.; Muro, Steve L.; Murphy, Donna M.; Myerscough, Sue E.; Namm, Adam E.; Nathan, Alison J.; Nguyen, Jacqueline H.; Nourse, Victoria F.; Nuffer, David; O'Donnell, Denise E.; Oetken, J. Paul; Ohlhausen, Maureen K.; Ohlson, Kevin A.; Olsen, Matthew G.; O'Neal, Adrienne S.; Orlando, Stephanie; Ostendorff, William C.; O'Sullivan, Stephanie; Pablos-Mendez, Ariel; Page, Susan D.; Pai, Ajit V.; Palmer, Larry L.; Pane, Martin J.; Panetta, Leon E.; Pasi, Geeta; Patterson, Anne W.; Patterson, Robert; Perez, Myrna; Petraeus, David H.; Phillips, Mary E.; Pietsch, Coral W.; Piquado, Paul; Pitman, Robert L.; Podesta, John D.; Pollard, William B., III; Postel, Eric G.; Powell, Nancy J.; Powers, Phyllis M.; Punke, Michael W.; Quagliotti, Marilyn A.; Quiroz, Lisa M.; Ramos, Edgardo; Ramos, Nelva G.; Raynor, Michael A.; Reed, Frankie A.; Rengifo-Ruess, Maria E.; Reyna, Jimmie V.; Ricciardone, Francis J., Jr.; Rice, Thomas O.; Richard, Anne C.; Robbins, Mark A.; Rodriguez, Leon; Rooney, Jo Ann; Rosenbaum, Robin S.; Rosenworcel, Jessica; Ross, John A.; Rudman, Mara E.; Russell, George L., III; Rutherford, Matthew S.; Ryan, J. Kelly; Ryan, James T.; Salas, Esther; Saldana, Diana; Saldana, Sarah R.; Salina, Charles F.; Sargeant, Winslow L.; Sargent, Anneila I.; Scheve, Timothy C.; Scola, Robert N., Jr.; Scuse, Michael T.; Segal, Phyllis N.; Seitz, Virginia A.; Shadid, James E.; Shapiro, Carl; Shapiro, Daniel B.; Sharp, Kevin H.; Sharpe, Ronald W.; Shear, David B.; Sheehan, Michael A.; Shelby, Robert J.; Shelton, Gloria W.; Sherman, Wendy R.; Sherrick, Bruce J.; Sherry, Margaret A.; Shields, Daniel L., III; Shwartz, Patty; Siddiqui, Islam A.; Silas, Natasha P.; Silliman, Scott L.; Simon, Michael H.; Singel, Wenona; Singer, Judith D.; Six, Steve; Skavdahl, Scott W.; Smith, Marie F.; Solomon, Lafe E.; Sonenshine, Tara D.; Sorian, Richard; Sponner, Edward M.; Spratlen, Pamela L.; Stancell, Arnold F.; Steele, Claude M.; Sullivan, Kathryn D.; Sumwalt, Robert L., III; Taranto, Richard G.; Taub, Robert G.; Tavenner, Marilyn B.; Terry, Clyde E.; Thacker, Stephanie D.; Tharp, John J., Jr.; Thessin, James H.; Tiao, Paul M.; Timberlake, James; Todd, William E.; Tong, Kurt W.; Torresen, Nancy; Torrey, James A.; Torsella, Joseph M.; Totenberg, Amy; Traver, Andrew L.; Triche-Milazzo, Jane M.; Tueller, Matthew H.; Urbanski, Michael F.; Vasquez, Juan F.; Verner, Mary B.; Verrilli, Donald B., Jr.; Vickers, Michael; Wald, Patricia M.; Walker, Linda T.; Walker, Thomas G.; Wallach, Evan J.; Walles, Jacob; Walsh, Michael J.; Walther, Larry W.; Ware, Nancy M.; Warren, Michael J.; Wayne, Earl A.; Webb, David B.; Wedner, Anne T.; Weinberg, Martha W.; Wetjen, Mark P.; Williams, Kathleen M.; Williams, Yvonne M.; Wimes, Brian C.; Wodder, Rebecca R.; Wohlers, Paul D.; Woodall, S. Roy, Jr.; Woods, Gregory H.; Yopp, John H.; Yoshikawa, Hirokazu; Ziadeh, Susan L.; Zimmer, Robert J.; Zipps, Jennifer G.  