Administration of Barack Obama, 2011 Checklist of White House Press Releases December 31, 2011 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. Released January 2 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 847 Released January 4 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 81, H.R. 628, H.R. 1107, H.R. 1746, H.R. 2142, H.R. 2751, H.R. 4445, H.R. 4602, H.R. 4748, H.R. 4973, H.R. 5116, H.R. 5133, H.R. 5470, H.R. 5605, H.R. 5606, H.R. 5655, H.R. 5809, H.R. 5877, H.R. 5901, H.R. 6392, H.R. 6400, H.R. 6412, H.R. 6510, H.R. 6533, S. 118, S. 841, S. 1481, S. 3036, S. 3243, S. 3447, S. 3481, S. 3592, S. 3874, S. 3903, and S. 4036 Released January 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text of an op-ed piece by Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius titled "Don't Turn Back the Clock on Health Care" Released January 6 Text: Statement by Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob J. "Jack" Lew on repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and a Congressional Budget Office letter assessing the budgetary effects of repealing the act Released January 7 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in December Text: Statement by Assistant to the President for Special Projects Stephanie Cutter: Repealing the Affordable Care Act will Hurt the Economy Released January 9 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Call for Moment of Silence for Victims of Shooting in Tucson, Arizona Released January 10 Statement by the Press Secretary: Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction Submits Resignation Released January 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on President Obama's meeting with Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din Hariri of Lebanon Released January 12 Advance text of the President's remarks at a memorial service for the victims of the shooting in Tucson, AZ Released January 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs (dated January 12) Transcript of a press gaggle by Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz Released January 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, and National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon on the state visit of President Hu Jintao of China Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady, Vice President and Dr. Biden, Cabinet Secretaries, Senior Administration Officials To Honor Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service Statement by the Press Secretary: Reaching Out to the Cuban People Released January 17 Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady, Vice President and Dr. Biden, Cabinet Secretaries, Senior Administration Officials to Honor Martin Luther King, Jr., Day of Service Released January 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: The President's Regulatory Strategy Released January 19 Statement by the Press Secretary: U.S. & China: Building a Positive, Cooperative, and Comprehensive Relationship Fact sheet: U.S.-China Commercial Relations Fact sheet: U.S.-China Economic Issues Fact sheet: U.S., China Partner To Counter Nuclear Smuggling Fact sheet: U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change, Clean Energy, and the Environment Fact sheet: U.S.-China Science and Technology Cooperation Highlights: 32 Years of Collaboration Fact sheet: U.S., China Sign Agreement To Establish Center of Excellence on Nuclear Security Text: U.S.-China Joint Statement Released January 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Presidential Initiative Supports Military Families Text: Strengthening Our Military Families Text: Guest list for the First Lady's Box at the State of the Union Address Released January 25 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden, Members of the Cabinet Fan Out Across the Country, Highlight Vision for Winning the Future Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Egypt Fact sheet: The State of the Union: President Obama's Plan to Win the Future Excerpts of the President's State of the Union Address Advance text of the President's State of the Union Address Released January 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advance text of the President's remarks at Orion Energy Systems, Inc., in Manitowoc, WI Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the inauguration of the Afghan Parliament Released January 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the advance estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2010 Released January 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: White House To Launch "Startup America" Initiative Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 366 Fact sheet: White House Launches "Startup America" Initiative Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on Events Surrounding "Strategy 31" Protests in Russia Released February 1 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Launches 2011 Race to the Top Commencement Challenge Released February 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Egypt Released February 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released February 4 Transcript of a press briefing by National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling, Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee, and Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases New Report on American Innovation Statement by the Press Secretary on the detainment and charging of U.S. Government contractor Alan Gross by Cuban authorities Fact sheet: Strategy for American Innovation: Securing Our Economic Growth Text: Joint Statement by President Obama and Prime Minister Harper of Canada on Regulatory Cooperation Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in January Released February 6 Text: Op-ed piece by the President for USA Today: "Reagan Saw That 'We Are All Patriots'" Released February 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advance text of the President's remarks to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Released February 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released February 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Details Plan To Win the Future Through Expanded Wireless Access (embargoed until February 10) Fact sheet: President Obama's Plan To Win the Future Through the Wireless Innovation and Infrastructure Initiative (embargoed until February 10) Released February 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advance text of the President's remarks at Northern Michigan University in Marquette, MI Released February 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text: Statement by National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling on the Trade Adjustment Assistance program Released February 12 Text: Statement by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon on Iran Released February 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob J. "Jack" Lew and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the Federal budget Released February 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released February 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 188 Released February 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released February 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released February 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the designation of Iranian officials responsible for or complicit in serious human rights abuses Released February 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released February 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 514 Released February 27 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on Iran Released February 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Permanent Representative to the U.N. Susan E. Rice Fact sheet: The Affordable Care Act: Supporting Innovation, Empowering States Fact sheet: A Win for States and Taxpayers: President Obama's Plan To Cut Red Tape, Give States Flexibility, and Save Money Released March 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes, and Deputy Communications Director Jennifer R. Psaki Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Conference on Bullying Prevention Set for March 10 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases First Comprehensive Federal Report on the Status of American Women in Almost 50 Years Statement by the Press Secretary announcing the 2010 National Medal of Arts and National Humanities Medal recipients Fact sheet: Women in America: People, Families and Income Released March 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Chief Performance Officer and Office of Management and Budget Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey D. Zients Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 44 Released March 3 Transcript of a press briefing by National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling and White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer Fact sheet: Enhancing U.S.-Mexico Cooperation Announcement: President Obama To Honor Stanley Cup Champion Chicago Blackhawks at White House Released March 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Discuss Shared Responsibility of Investing in Education to Win the Future in Boston Visit Statement by the Press Secretary on Harvard University's decision to reestablish Reserve Officer Training Corps presence on campus Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 662 Fact sheet: Transformative Change in America's Lowest-Performing Schools Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the Employment Situation in February Text: Op-ed piece by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan for the Miami-Herald: "Fixing Struggling Schools" Announcement: White House Announces 2011 White House Easter Egg Roll Date and Theme Released March 6 Advanced text of remarks by Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough at the All Dulles Area Muslim Society Center in Sterling, VA Released March 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Highlights Shared Responsibility in Education Reform (embargoed until March 7) Fact sheet: New Actions on Guantanamo and Detainee Policy Released March 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released March 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on recent violence in the Abyei region of Sudan Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate action on Federal budget legislation Released March 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on Libya and the Middle East Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady Call For a United Effort To Address Bullying Released March 12 Statement by the Press Secretary on Arab League announcements regarding the situation in Libya Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack in the West Bank Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Tommy Vietor on Cuba's detention of Alan Gross Released March 13 Statement by the Press Secretary on the ongoing U.S. response to the earthquakes and tsunami in Japan Statement by the Press Secretary on violence in Yemen and Bahrain Text: Op-ed by President Obama in the Arizona Daily Star: We must seek agreement on gun reforms Released March 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory B. Jaczko, and Department of Energy Deputy Secretary Daniel B. Poneman Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls on Congress To Fix No Child Left Behind Before the Start of the Next School Year (dated March 13) Fact sheet: Fixing No Child Left Behind (dated March 13) Released March 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman on the President's upcoming visit to Latin America Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of legislation extending Federal Government funding Fact sheet: The U.S.-Brazil Relationship: Strengthening Economic Ties Contribute to Jobs and Growth Fact sheet: The U.S.-Brazil Relationship With Central and South America: An Emerging Partnership for Economic Growth Released March 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel Restrepo, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Released March 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory B. Jaczko, and Department of Energy Deputy Secretary Daniel B. Poneman Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate passage of legislation extending Federal Government funding Released March 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Council of Economic Advisers release of its sixth quarterly report on the economic impact of the Recovery Act Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 48 Text: Op-ed by President Obama in USA Today: Jobs at top of Latin America agenda Released March 19 Fact sheet: Strengthening the U.S.-Brazil Economic Relationship Fact sheet: U.S.-Brazil Strategic Energy Dialogue Fact sheet: U.S.-Brazil Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor Cooperation Fact sheet: The United States and Brazil: Education, Science, Technology, Innovation, Space, and Education Cooperation Text: Defense Department fact sheet: U.S.-Brazil Defense Cooperation (dated March 14) Text: Joint Statement by President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil and President Barack Obama: Brazil and the United States as Global Partners Text: Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on Cooperation To Support the Organization of Major Global Sporting Events Text: State Department fact sheet: U.S.-Brazil Joint Action Plan on Racial and Ethnic Equality Text: Memorandum of Understanding Between the Department of Labor of the United States of America and the Ministry of Labor and Employment of Brazil Concerning Labor Cooperation Text: Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil (dated March 18) Text: Air Transport Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil Text: Partnership for the Development of Aviation Biofuels Released March 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the situation in Libya (dated March 20) Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel Restrepo previewing the President's visit to Chile Statement by the Press Secretary: 2011 White House Easter Egg Roll Poster Design Contest Fact sheet: Strengthening the U.S.-Chile Economic Relationship Fact sheet: The United States and Chile: Environment, Energy, and Climate Change Fact sheet: Partnerships for Progress: Citizen Security in the Americas Fact sheet: The Central America Citizen Security Partnership Fact sheet: Partnerships for Progress: Education and Innovation Fact sheet: Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas Text: Joint Statement by President Barack Obama and President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile on the Occasion of President Obama's Visit to Santiago, Chile Text: State Department fact sheet: The United States and Chile: Trade and Investment (dated March 20) Text: State Department fact sheet: The United States and Chile: Cooperation on the Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy Text: State Department fact sheet: The United States and Chile: Disaster Preparedness and Relief (dated March 20) Text: State Department fact sheet: The United States and Chile: Trilateral Development Cooperation (dated March 20) Text: State Department fact sheet: United States-Chile Cooperation on Education (dated March 20) Text: State Department fact sheet: Pathways to Prosperity Text: State Department fact sheet: The Merida Initiative: Expanding the U.S.-Mexico Partnership (dated March 3) Text: State Department fact sheet: The Central America Regional Security Initiative: Citizen Safety—A Shared Partnership (dated March 14) Text: State Department fact sheet: The Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (dated March 14) Text: State Department fact sheet: The Colombia Strategic Development Initiative (CSDI) Text: State Department fact sheet: Western Hemispheric Affairs (WHA) FY 2010 Program List Text: State Department fact sheet: NEXUS Innovation Initiative Text: Defense Department fact sheet: U.S.-Chile Defense Cooperation (dated March 18) Text: Defense Department fact sheet: U.S. Defense Cooperation in the Americas (dated March 15) Text: Office of National Drug Control Policy fact sheet: U.S. Demand Reduction Efforts (dated February 2011) Text: Memorandum of Intent Between the International Trade Administration, United States Department of Commerce and the Export Promotion Bureau (PROCHILE), Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Chile Concerning Technical and Promotional Cooperation in Support of Trade (dated March 18) Text: Sister Park Arrangement Between Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve, National Park Service, Department of the Interior of the United States of America and Francisco Coloane Marine and Coastal Protected Area, Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Chile (dated March 18) Text: Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Chile Concerning Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy (dated March 18) Text: Memorandum of Understanding Between the Federal Emergency Management Agency of the Department of Homeland Security of the United States of America and the National Emergency Office of the Ministry of the Interior and Public Security of the Republic of Chile (dated March 18) Text: Memorandum of Understanding Between the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Chilean International Cooperation Agency (AGCI) for the Implementation of Development Cooperation Activities in Third Countries (dated February 23) Text: Letter of Intent Between the Department of State of the Government of the United States of America and the Ministry of Education of the Government of the Republic of Chile (dated March 18) Released March 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel Restrepo, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes (dated March 21) Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary on ending violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity Fact sheet: Strengthening the U.S.-El Salvador Economic Relationship Fact sheet: The Crossroads Fund: Reducing Transport and Logistics Costs Fact sheet: Sending Money Abroad: Remittance Transfers Text: State Department fact sheet: U.S.-El Salvador Citizen Security: A Shared Responsibility Text: State Department fact sheet: The Central America Regional Security Initiative: Citizen Safety—A Shared Partnership (dated March 14) Text: Defense Department fact sheet: U.S.-El Salvador Defense Cooperation Released March 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel Restrepo Released March 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Statement by the Press Secretary on United Arab Emirates support for U.N. Security Council Resolution 1973 Text: Statement by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon on the adoption of a U.N. resolution appointing a Special Rapporteur to monitor human rights abuses in Iran Released March 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Deliver Speech on Libya Released March 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough Statement by the Press Secretary: 2011 White House Easter Egg Logo and Souvenir Egg Revealed Fact sheet: Winning the Future: Out-Educating Our Global Competitors by Improving Educational Opportunities and Outcomes for Hispanic Students Advance text of the President's remarks at the National Defense University Released March 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney  Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon at the Carnegie International Nuclear Policy Conference Released March 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, and Deputy Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Heather Zichal Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's decisions concerning the situation in Libya Text: Statement by Deputy Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Heather Zichal on the Obama administration's blueprint for a secure energy future Fact sheet: America's Energy Security Advance text of the President's remarks at Georgetown University Released March 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S. contribution to the U.N. Trust Fund for Global and Regional Disarmament Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1079 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on "Strategy 31" protests in Russia Fact sheet: National Clean Fleets Partnership (embargoed until April 1) Released April 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in March Advance text of the President's remarks at a UPS shipping facility in Landover, MD Released April 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released April 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate passage of the "Comprehensive 1099 Taxpayer Protection and Repayment of Exchange Subsidy Overpayments Act of 2011" Statement by the Press Secretary on the Republican Federal budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2012 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Yemen Released April 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the Senate votes on the Environmental Protection Agency's authority under the Clean Air Act Fact sheet: U.S.-Colombia Trade Agreement and Action Plan Fact sheet: Benefits of the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement: More American Exports, More American Jobs Fact sheet: Leveling the Playing Field: Labor Protections and the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Fact sheet: Trade & the U.S.-Colombia Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement: Expanding Markets for America's Farmers and Ranchers Released April 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Office of Management and Budget Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey D. Zients Released April 8 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House, Department of Education Announce 2011 Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Finalists Released April 9 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1363 Released April 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released April 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden, First Lady Michelle Obama, and Dr. Jill Biden Launch National "Joining Forces" Initiative To Support America's Military Families Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Statement by the Press Secretary on the European Union's designation of Iranian officials responsible for human rights abuses in Iran Released April 13 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medals of Honor Statement by the Press Secretary on the submission of legislation required for the ratification of four key treaties that are critical to securing nuclear materials and preventing nuclear terrorism Fact sheet: The President's Framework for Shared Prosperity and Shared Fiscal Responsibility Advance text of the President's remarks at George Washington University Released April 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob J. "Jack" Lew Statement by the Press Secretary on Federal budget funding for Fiscal Year 2011 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4 Text: Joint op-ed piece by President Obama, Prime Minister Cameron of the United Kingdom, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France: "Libya's Pathway to Peace" Released April 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Administration Releases Strategy To Protect Online Consumers and Support Innovation Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Hold Town Halls To Discuss his Vision for Bringing Down our Deficit Based on Shared Responsibility and Shared Prosperity Statement by the Press Secretary on House Republican budget vote Fact sheet: National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace Released April 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Announcement: President Obama and Vice President Biden's Tax Returns and Tax Receipts Released April 19 Fact sheet: Benefits of the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement (dated April 18) Fact sheet: Tax Transparency in Panama (dated April 18) Fact sheet: Labor Protections and the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement (dated April 18) Fact sheet: U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement: Expanding Markets for America's Farmers and Ranchers (dated April 18) Announcement: White House Announces 2011 Easter Egg Roll Program and Talent Line-up Released April 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of photojournalist Tim Hetherington and the wounding of several other journalists in Libya Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of photojournalist Chris Hondros in Libya  Statement by the Press Secretary on the passing of U.N. Security Council Resolution 1977 Released April 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Online Review and Rating for Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Begins Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Reno, NV Released April 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Attorney General Eric J. Holder, Jr.: Protecting Consumers at the Pump: The Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group Released April 23 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Yemen Released April 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medal of Honor Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 307 and S.J. Res. 8 Released April 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Deliver 2011 Commencement Addresses Released April 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Director of Communications H. Daniel Pfeiffer, and White House Counsel Robert Bauer Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on national security personnel changes Text: Statement by the Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer: President Obama's Long-Form Birth Certificate Released April  28 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Honors Outstanding Math and Science Teachers Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the advance estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2011 Released April 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Dr. Jill Biden To Honor Teachers of the Year Statement by the Press Secretary on the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's signing of an Executive order imposing sanctions against Syrian officials and Iranian Government entities responsible for human rights abuses Fact sheet: Executive Order, Syria Human Rights Abuses Released May 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser John O. Brennan Statement by the Press Secretary on the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty and the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty Released May 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released May 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released May 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released May 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in April Released May 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released May 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Booker T. Washington High School Wins Race to the Top Commencement Challenge Advance text of the President's remarks in El Paso, TX Text: Statement by Domestic Policy Council Director: The President's Blueprint for Building a 21st Century Immigration System Text: Statement by Assistant to the President for Manufacturing Policy Ron Bloom: How Tough Love Averted Catastrophe & Led to 4,200 New American Jobs Released May 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released May 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Proposes Extending Term for FBI Director Robert Mueller Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Honor UConn Men's Basketball Team at White House Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1308 Fact sheet: The Administration's Cybersecurity Accomplishments Fact sheet: Cybersecurity Legislative Proposal Released May 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Deliver Commencement Address to Booker T. Washington High School Graduates in Memphis Statement by the Press Secretary on the 50th anniversary of the opening of the White House Situation Room Text: Letter of resignation from U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell (dated April 6) Text: Remarks as prepared for delivery by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy (dated May 12) Released May 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases The Small Business Agenda: Growing America's Small Businesses to Win the Future Highlighting Critical Support for Small Businesses Across the Country Statement by the Press Secretary: The President & Vice President's 2010 Financial Disclosure Forms Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Launches 2011 Citizens Medal Nomination Process Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Give Keynote Address During Coast Guard Academy Commencement Exercises Advance text of the President's remarks at a commencement address at Booker T. Washington High School in Memphis, TN Fact sheet: The Small Business Agenda: Growing America's Small Businesses to Win the Future Released May 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on S. 940, the "Close Big Oil Tax Loopholes Act" Released May 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by senior administration official to preview the economic components of the President's remarks at the Department of State Fact sheet: Economic Support for the Middle East and North Africa Released May 19 Fact sheet: "A Moment of Opportunity" in the Middle East and North Africa Advance text of the President's remarks at the Department of State Released May 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Senior Director for European Affairs Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, and Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman on the President's visit to Europe Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Pardons Released May 21 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Sudan Released May 22 Advance text of the President's remarks at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee Policy Conference Released May 23 Statement by the Press Secretary on the European Union's designation of Iranian individuals and entities associated with nuclear proliferation-related activities in Iran Released May 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Text: London Times joint op-ed piece by President Obama and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom Released May 25 Fact sheet: The U.S.-UK Partnership for Global Development Fact sheet: The U.S.-UK Joint Strategy Board Fact sheet: The U.S.-UK Task Force To Support Our Armed Forces Personnel, Veterans and Their Families Fact sheet: U.S.-UK Higher Education, Science, and Innovation Collaboration Fact sheet: U.S. and UK Cooperation on Cyberspace Fact sheet: Peace Corps and VSO Partnership on Volunteerism to Promote Global Development Released May 26 Transcript of a readout by National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Danny Russel on the President's meeting with Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan at the G–8 summit in Deauville, France Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 990 Text: Joint Report by the Coordinators on Progress of the U.S.-Russia Presidential Commission Text: Memorandum of Understanding on the Smart Grid Partnership Program (dated May 24) Text: Protocol of Intent on Cooperation for the Global Eradication of Polio (dated January 27) Text: Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Basic Biomedical Research between the National Institutes of Health and Russian Academy of Sciences (dated April 26) Text: Memorandum of Understanding Between the National Institutes of Health and the Russian Foundation for Basic Research of the Russian Federation (dated March 10) Released May 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for European Affairs Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall Transcript of a readout by a senior administration official on the President's G–8 Summit meetings in Deauville, France Fact sheet: G–8 Summit in Deauville, France Fact sheet: G–8 and the Middle East and North Africa Text: Deauville G8 Declaration: Renewed Commitment for Freedom and Democracy Text: Declaration of the G8 on the Arab Spring Text: G8/Africa Joint Declaration: Shared Values, Shared Responsibilities Released May 28 Transcript of a weekly address by Vice President Joe Biden (dated May 27; embargoed until May 28) Fact sheet: U.S.-Poland Bilateral Defense Cooperation Fact sheet: The United States and Poland—An Alliance and Partnership for the 21st Century Fact sheet: U.S.-Poland Cooperation on Clean Energy Fact sheet: U.S.-Poland Business Roundtable Fact sheet: U.S.-Polish Efforts To Advance Democracy Worldwide Released May 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released May 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 793 and H.R. 1893 Text: Statement by White House Office of Public Engagement Associate Director Stephanie Valencia: People are Talking and People Want Immigration Reform Released June 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Assistant to the President for Manufacturing Policy Ron Bloom Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1082 Released June 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released June 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: On 30th Year of HIV/AIDS, Obama Administration Recommits to Fighting Pandemic Statement by the Press Secretary on violence in Yemen Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in May Released June 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Dr. Austan D. Goolsbee, Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, To Return to the University of Chicago Released June 7 Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S. support for a second term candidacy for United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Fact sheet: U.S.-Germany Cultural relations Fact sheet: U.S.-German Global Economic and Development Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-Germany Security Cooperation Fact sheet: The United States and Germany—Leaders for the 21st Century Fact sheet: U.S.-Germany Science and Technology Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-German Bilateral Economic Ties Released June 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Skills for America's Future Partners Announce Initiatives Critical to Improving Manufacturing Workforce (dated June 7; embargoed until June 8) Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 754 Released June 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Establishes White House Council To Strengthen Rural Communities Statement by the Press Secretary on the IAEA Board of Governors resolution on Syria Released June 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Southern Kordofan, Sudan Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Released June 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Text: Statement by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the death of Al Qaida terrorist organization operative Harun Fazul Released June 13 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released June 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released June 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Counsel to the President Robert Bauer on the availability of executive branch personnel public financial disclosure reports Released June 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released June 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Announcement: President Obama To Honor Major League Soccer Cup Champion Colorado Rapids at the White House on June 27 Text: Obama Administration Announces Commitment to Promoting Inbound Foreign Direct Investment to Create Jobs in the U.S. and Grow the Economy Released June 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President will address the Nation on the drawdown of U.S. military personnel in Afghanistan on June 22 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Discuss Manufacturing at Carnegie Mellon University Released June 22 Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials previewing the President's plan to draw down U.S. military personnel in Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary: On Anniversary of Olmstead, Obama Administration Recommits To Assist Americans With Disabilities Announcement: President Obama To Honor WNBA Champion Seattle Storm at the White House on June 29 Advance text of the President's national address on the drawdown of U.S. military personnel in Afghanistan Released June 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the Nuclear Suppliers Group approval of new guidelines covering transfers of sensitive nuclear technologies used for enrichment of uranium or the processing of spent nuclear fuel Released June 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches Advanced Manufacturing Partnership (dated June 23; embargoed until June 24) Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's June 27 meetings with Senate leadership to discuss approaches to deficit reduction Statement by the Press Secretary on the fifth year anniversary of the capture and detainment of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit by Hamas militants Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S.J. Res. 7 and S.J. Res. 9 Released June 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released June 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on progress on Trade Adjustment Assistance for American workers and pending free trade agreements in support of American jobs Fact sheet: Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers: Restoring and Reauthorizing Trade Adjustment Assistance Fact sheet: The U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement: More American Jobs, Faster Economic Recovery Through Exports Fact sheet: Benefits of the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Fact sheet: Benefits of the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement Released June 29 Fact sheet: National Strategy for Counterterrorism Advance text of remarks by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies Released June 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Announces 14 Initial Partners in the Better Buildings Challenge Released July 1 Statement by the Press Secretary: Council of Economic Advisers Releases Seventh Quarterly Report on the Economic Impact of the Recovery Act Released July 2 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Bahrain Released July 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in June Released July 9 Text: Statement by White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer on Federal budget negotiations Released July 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser John O. Brennan's meeting with President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen Released July 11 Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Launches Strong Cities, Strong Communities To Support Local Development Text: Statement by Office of Management and Budget Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Administrator Cass R. Sunstein: The President's Executive Order on Improving and Streamlining Regulation by Independent Regulatory Agencies Released July 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Chief of Staff Daley Highlights Priority for the President's Export Control Reform Initiative Released July 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Plans To Shut Down Hundreds of Duplicative Data Centers as Part of Campaign To Cut Waste Statement by the Press Secretary on the arrest of Goran Hadzic by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) Released July 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released July 22 Text: Certification and transmittal letters concerning the repeal of the Department of Defense's "don't ask, don't tell" policy Released July 23 Statement by the Press Secretary on Federal budget negotiations Released July 25 Statement by the Press Secretary on Federal budget negotiations Fact sheet: Strategy To Combat Transnational Organized Crime Text: Strategy To Combat Transnational Organized Crime: Addressing Converging Threats to National Security Advance text of the President's remarks on the Federal budget Transcript of remarks by senior administration officials on the strategy to combat transnational organized crime Text: Statement by White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer: Some Republicans in Congress Once Argued Against Short-Term Solutions—They Were Right Released July 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: On Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Obama Administration Recommits To Enforcing and Protecting the Civil Rights of All Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1103 Released July 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President will hold an event on the national program to improve fuel efficiency on cars and light-duty trucks for model years 2017–2025 Released July 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Transportation Raymond H. LaHood Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Launches Government Accountability and Transparency Board To Cut Waste and Boost Accountability Released July 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Historic 54.5 mpg Fuel Efficiency Standard Statement by the Press Secretary on Federal budget negotiations Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the advance estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2011 and annual revision Released July 31 Fact sheet: Bipartisan Debt Deal: A Win for the Economy and Budget Discipline Released August 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released August 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 365 Released August 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Transportation Ray H. LaHood Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1383 Text: Empowering Local Partners To Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States Released August 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: President Obama Directs New Steps To Prevent Mass Atrocities and Impose Consequences on Serious Human Rights Violators Released August 5 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Participate in White House Rural Economic Forum at Northeast Iowa Community College in Peosta, Iowa Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2553 Fact sheet: President Obama's Commitment to Employing America's Veterans Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee on the employment situation in July Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on Cuba's detention of Alan Gross Released August 6 Statement by the Press Secretary on bipartisan efforts to strengthen the national economy Released August 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes, and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Statement by the Press Secretary on additional funding for famine and humanitarian assistance to Africa Released August 9 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces First Ever Oil Savings Standards for Heavy Duty Trucks, Buses Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Ron Bloom To Step Down From His Position as Assistant to the President for Manufacturing Policy Released August 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released August 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Fueling American Innovation (dated August 10) Released August 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Rural Council Delivers Report on Rural America Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2715 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Tommy Vietor on U.S.-Brazil Strategic Energy Dialogue Launch Released August 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released August 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Announces New Jobs Initiatives for Rural America (dated August 15; embargoed until August 16) Text: Statement by the Office of Communications: President Obama Announces Major Initiative To Spur Biofuels Industry and Enhance America's Energy Security Released August 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials on the situation in Syria Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack in southern Israel Fact sheet: Administration Steps To Pressure Syrian Regime and Support Universal Rights of the Syrian people Released August 19 Statement by the Press Secretary on World Humanitarian Day Released August 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released August 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released August 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released August 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate Released August 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Advance text of the President's remarks at the American Legion National Convention in Minneapolis, MN Released August 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness Announces Industry Leaders' Commitment to Double Engineering Internships in 2012 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Steps To Expedite High Impact Infrastructure Projects To Create Jobs Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's address to a joint session of Congress Text: Letter from the U.S. Conference of Mayors on the surface transportation bill and the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization Released September 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces We the People Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's acceptance of an invitation to address a joint session of Congress on September 8  Released September 2 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers member Katherine G. Abraham regarding the August employment situation Text: Statement by Deputy Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Heather Zichal regarding the steps the Obama administration has taken to reduce harmful air pollution while promoting the Nation's economic growth and well-being Text: Letter from White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Administrator Cass Sunstein to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson regarding the ozone national ambient air quality standards  Released September 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released September 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released September 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released September 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Op-ed piece by the President for USA Today: "Let's Reclaim the Post-9/11 Unity" Released September 8 Text: Statements by members of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness in support of the "American Jobs Act" Fact sheet: The American Jobs Act Excerpts of the President's address to a joint session of the Congress on the "American Jobs Act" Advance text of the President's address to a joint session of the Congress Text: Guest list for the First Lady's Box at the address to a joint session of the Congress Released September 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on the credentialing of the Libyan Ambassador Released September 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Advance text of the President's remarks at "A Concert for Hope" commemorating the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks Released September 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob J. "Jack" Lew  Text: Section-by-section analysis and explanation of the "American Jobs Act of 2011" Text: Full text of the "American Jobs Act of 2011" Fact sheet: Repairing and Modernizing America's Schools (embargoed until September 13) Released September 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: The American Jobs Act: Impact for Montana Released September 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released September 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the "American Jobs Act" Text: Remarks by the First Lady at a "Lets Move!" initiative restaurant announcement in Hyattsville, MD Fact sheet: Implementing Missile Defense in Europe Released September 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the 66th Session of the United Nations General Assembly Statement by the Press Secretary: White House To Launch "Digital Promise" Initiative Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs America Invents Act, Overhauling the Patent System To Stimulate Economic Growth, and Announces New Steps To Help Entrepreneurs Create Jobs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2887 Text: Remarks by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan at Harvard Law School's "Law, Security & Liberty After 9/11: Looking to the Future" conference in Cambridge, MA Released September 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, and Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob J. "Jack" Lew Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Fact sheet: Living Within Our Means and Investing in the Future—the President's Plan for Economic Growth and Deficit Reduction Text: Living Within Our Means and Investing in the Future: The President's Plan for Economic Growth and Deficit Reduction Released September 20 Fact sheet: Advancing U.S. Interests at the United Nations Fact sheet: The Open Government Partnership Advance text of the President's remarks at a U.N. meeting on Libya in New York City Advance text of the President's remarks at an Open Government Partnership event in New York City Released September 21 Fact sheet: The United States Commitment to Breaking Down Barriers to Women's Economic and Political Participation Advance text of the President's remarks to the U.N. General Assembly in New York City Released September 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Sets High Bar for Flexibility for No Child Behind in Order to Advance Equity and Support Reform (embargoed until September 23) Statement by the Press Secretary on the 10th anniversary of the World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa Fact sheet: Global Health Security Advance text of the President's remarks at Hilltop Resources, Inc., in Cincinnati, OH Released September 23 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 846 Released September 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: The White House and National Science Foundation Announce New Workplace Flexibility Policies To Support America's Scientists and Their Families Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Early-Career Scientists Released September 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Nation's Top Scientists and Innovators  Fact sheet: Repairing and Modernizing America's Schools Advance text of the President's remarks at Abraham Lincoln High School in Denver, CO Advance text of the President's remarks at Benjamin Banneker Academic High School Released September 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released September 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the conviction of Pastor Youcef Nadarkhani in Iran Released September 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2005, H.R. 2017, H.R. 2883, and H.R. 2943 Released October 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released October 4 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack in Mogadishu, Somalia Fact sheet: American Jobs Act Supports Nearly 400,000 Education Jobs Excerpts of the President's remarks at Eastfield College in Mesquite, TX Released October 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2608 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2646 Released October 6 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces the Creation of a Presidential Emergency Board, Names Members Released October 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Syria Fact sheet: Safeguarding the U.S. Government's Classified Information and Networks Fact sheet: The President's Framework for Investing in Tunisia Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers member Katherine G. Abraham regarding the September employment situation Released October 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Egypt Released October 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Announces Selection of 14 Infrastructure Projects To Be Expedited Through Permitting and Environmental Review Process Statement by the Press Secretary on the conviction in Ukraine of former Prime Minister Yuliya Tymoshenko of Ukraine Text: Letter From Democratic Governors to Congressional Leadership on the American Jobs Act Text: Letter From Florida Mayors Urging Congress To Pass American Jobs Act Released October 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Recipients of the 2011 Citizens Medal Released October 13 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 771 and H.R. 1632 Released October 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Creating Pathways to Opportunity Text: "Creating Pathways to Opportunity" report highlighting efforts to help underserved communities and strengthen the middle class Text: Op-ed by United Auto Workers President Bob King: "UAW Backs Korea Trade Agreement"  Released October 15 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of Laura Pollan Released October 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released October 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on the United Kingdom's announcement of sanctions against individuals presumed to have connections to the assassination attempt on Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to the U.S. Released October 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: First Lady Michelle Obama Announces Major Private Sector Commitment To Hire 25,000 Veterans and Military Spouses in Support of Joining Forces Released October 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House To Eliminate $3.5 Billion in Wasteful Federal Real Estate Costs Fact sheet: The United States and Norway—NATO Allies and Global Partners Released October 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough, and National Security Adviser to the Vice President Tony Blinken Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Presents the National Medals of Science & National Medals of Technology and Innovation, and Announces Additional Steps To Help Bring More Cutting-Edge Ideas to Market Statement by the Press Secretary on the passage of U.N. Security Council Resolution 2014 Statements by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2832, H.R. 2944, H.R. 3080, H.R. 3078, and H.R. 3079 Text: Op-ed piece by National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling for the Wall Street Journal: "The Case for the President's Jobs Act" Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on the ETA terrorist organization's announcement renouncing the use of violence in Spain Released October 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Advance text of the President's remarks in Las Vegas, NV Released October 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Secretary Ken Salazar as Administration's Senior Official Responsible for Oversight of Implementation of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Fact sheet: We Can't Wait: Obama Administration's New Initiatives To Help Create Jobs for Veterans Fact sheet: We Can't Wait: Obama Administration To Lower Student Loan Payments for Millions of Borrowers Fact sheet: Help Americans Manage Student Loan Debt Released October 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released October 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers member Katharine Abraham on the GDP for the third quarter of 2011 Fact sheet: The United States and the Czech Republic—NATO Allies and Partners in Prosperity and Democracy Fact sheet: The United States and Czech Republic: Civil Nuclear Cooperation Released October 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the North American Leaders' Summit Text: Op-ed piece by the President for the Financial Times: "A Firewall To Stop Europe's Crisis Spreading" Fact sheet: We Can't Wait: Obama Administration Announces Two Steps To Help Businesses Create Jobs, Strengthen Competitiveness Released October 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on the meeting between Iraqi National Security Adviser Falah al-Fayyadh and National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon Released October 31 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and Treasury Undersecretary for International Affairs Lael Brainard on the President's visit to Cannes, France, for the G–20 summit Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S.-EU summit Fact sheet: We Can't Wait: Obama Administration Takes Action To Reduce Prescription Drug Shortages, Fight Price Gouging Text: Release of the President's Medical Exam Released November 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Sign Proclamation Designating Fort Monroe a National Monument Released November 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Urges Congress To Put Construction Workers Back on the Job  Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Launches 2011 Campus "Champions of Change" Challenge Released November 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Treasury Undersecretary for International Affaris Lael Brainard, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the G–20 meetings Released November 4 Fact sheet: G–20: Common Global Challenges Fact sheet: G–20: Cannes Action Plan for Growth and Jobs Fact sheet: G–20: U.S. Financial Reform and the G–20 Leaders' Agenda Text: The Cannes Action Plan for Growth and Jobs Text: Cannes Summit Final Declaration Text: Cannes G–20 Communique Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger regarding the October employment situation Released November 5 Transcript of a weekly address by Vice President Joe Biden (released November 4; embargoed until November 5) Released November 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: Leading Veterans Organizations Back Returning Heroes, Wounded Warrior Tax Credits; President Obama Announces Initiatives To Get Veterans Back To Work Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 489, H.R. 765, H.R. 1843, H.R. 1975, H.R. 2062, and H.R. 2149 Released November 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: President Obama Takes Action To Improve and Promote Accountability in Head Start Programs Released November 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Danny Russel on the President's visit to Hawaii, Australia, and Indonesia Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: President Obama To Sign Executive Order  To Cut Waste and Promote Efficient Spending and White House To Announce 2011 SAVE Award Finalists Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 368, H.R. 818, and S. 894 Fact sheet: The President's Agenda and the African American Community Advance text of the President's remarks at the National Women's Law Center annual awards dinner Released November 10 Transcript of a press briefing by James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the bombings in South Sudan Released November 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the President's meeting with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico Released November 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asia Daniel Russel Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua Earnest, William C. Weldon, chief executive officer, Johnson & Johnson, Inc., Richard P. Lavin, group president, Caterpillar, Inc., and Eric E. Schmidt, executive chairman, Google, Inc. Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed S. 1487 Fact sheet: The United States in the Trans-Pacific Partnership Fact sheet: APEC on Travel Facilitation Released November 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes and Adm. Robert F. Willard, USN, commander, U.S. Pacific Command Fact sheet: 19th Annual APEC Leaders Meeting Outcomes: Creating Jobs, Growth, and Economic Opportunity with AELM Declaration & Annexes Text of remarks by the First Lady at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit spouses luncheon in Ka'a'awa, HI Text of remarks by the First Lady during a roundtable with members of MA'O Organic Farms in Wai'anae, HI Released November 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Forum on Nonprofit Leadership Text: Statement by White House Communications Director Daniel Pfeiffer on the Supreme Court and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Text of remarks by the First Lady at a jobs fair at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickman, HI Released November 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: Agencies Cut Nearly $18 Billion in Improper Payments, Announce New Steps for Stopping Government Waste Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Science, Math, and Engineering Mentors Released November 16 Transcript of a press briefing by James "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asia Daniel Russel Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: Obama Administration Proposes Historic Fuel Economy Standards to Reduce Dependence on Oil, Save Consumers Money at the Pump Text: Statement by Assistant Press Secretary for National Security and Defense Tanya Bradsher: Prime Minister Gillard and President Obama Announce Force Posture Initiative Text: Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Australia on Enhancing Cooperation in Preventing and Combating Crime Text: Statement on Memorandum of Understanding on Combating Crime Text: Statement on Clean Energy Cooperation Text: Statement on Education Cooperation Text: Statement on Development Cooperation Fact sheet: New Australia-United States Cooperation Released November 17 Fact sheet: U.S. Exports Promotion and the Asia-Pacific Excepts of the President's address to Parliament in Canberra, Australia Released November 18 Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials on Burma Statement by the Press Secretary on the International Atomic Energy Agency Board of Governors' passage of a resolution against Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on the United Nations General Assembly's resolution condemning the Iranian-backed plot to assassinate Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to the U.S. Adil al-Ahmad al-Jubayr Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 2112 Fact sheet: Expansion of the Peace Corps Indonesia Program Fact sheet: United States-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-Indonesia Education Partnership Fact sheet: Excess Defense Article (EDA) F–16 Refurbishment Released November 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney, National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Transcript a briefing by a senior administration official on the President's meetings at the ASEAN Summit and East Asia Summit Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Sign Legislation Providing Tax Credits To Help Put Veterans Back to Work Statement by the Press Secretary on Ukrainian Holodomor Remembrance Day Fact sheet: East Asia Summit Released November 20 Fact sheet: ASEAN-United States Leaders Meeting Released November 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Pardons and Commutation Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1280 Fact sheet: U.S. Pressure and Sanctions Against Iran Fact sheet: Returning Heroes and Wounded Warrior Tax Credits Text of remarks by the First Lady at a country music student workshop Released November 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon at the Brookings Institution Released November 23 Statement by the Press Secretary on Bahrain Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 398, H.R. 2447, and S. 1412 Released November 25 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Egypt Released November 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: President Signs Memorandum to Modernize Management of Government Records Fact sheet: High-Level Working Group on Jobs and Growth Released November 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger Statement by the Press Secretary on the storming of the United Kingdom's Embassy in Tehran, Iran Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3321 and S. 1637 Released November 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Transatlantic Economic Council Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on Turkey's actions targeting Syria Text: Transatlantic Economic Council: Joint Statement Released December 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on European Union actions targeting Iran and Syria Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: President Obama Announces Nearly $4 Billion Investment in Energy Upgrades to Public and Private Buildings (embargoed until December 2) Fact sheet: The Beginning of the End of AIDS Fact sheet: The United States' Relationship With the European Union: An Enduring Partnership Advance text of the President's remarks at George Washington University Released December 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Hosts 2011 White House Tribal Nations Conference Text: 2011 White House Tribal Nations Conference Progress Report: Achieving a Brighter Future for Tribal Nations Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger regarding the November employment situation Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Thomas F. Vietor on actions by Russia's Government against the independent election monitoring organization Golos Released December 4 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases New Report on the Importance of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Text: National Economic Council report: Improving Americans' Financial Security: The Importance of a CFPB Director Released December 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statements on the departure of Assistant to the President and Special Adviser Philip M. Schiliro Fact sheet: Seventh Review Conference of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention Released December 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S. Ambassador to Syria Robert S. Ford returning to Syria Fact sheet: Working to Advance the Human Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Persons Globally Advance text of the President's remarks at Osawatomie High School in Osawatomie, KS Released December 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney and Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Neal S. Wolin Statement by the Press Secretary on the Iranian Government's blockage of the web-based, virtual U.S. Embassy in Tehran Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 394 Fact sheet: U.S.-Canada Beyond the Border and Regulatory Cooperation Council Initiatives Released December 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: Obama Administration Announces $2 Billion in Resources to Support Job-Creating Startups Text: Strategic Implementation Plan for Empowering Local Partners to Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States Released December 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Released December 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Names Commerce Secretary John Bryson and NEC Chair Gene Sperling as Co-chairs of White House Office of Manufacturing Policy Statement by the Press Secretary on the filibuster in the Senate of the nomination for the Ambassador to El Salvador Released December 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Campaign to Cut Waste: Vice President Biden Announces U.S. Will Halt Production of Excess Dollar Coins and Department of Justice Recovered a Record $5.6 Billion in Fraud in 2011 Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Holds Major Gulf of Mexico Oil and Gas Lease Sale Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives action on payroll tax cut legislation Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2192, S. 1541, and S. 1639 Released December 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Tommy Vietor on the International Engagement Conference for South Sudan Text: Statement by White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer on congressional action on Federal budget legislation Released December 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: President Obama Will Announce Administrative Action to Provide Minimum Wage and Overtime Protection for Nearly 2 Million In-Home Care Workers Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Releases Report and Interactive Maps Highlighting Critical American Jobs Act Investments in Education Text: Education & The American Jobs Act: Creating Jobs Through Investments In Our Nation's Schools report Text: Joint Statement by the United States and the Republic of South Sudan at the International Engagement Conference for South Sudan Fact sheet: Supporting South Sudan's Vision for the Future Released December 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: We Can't Wait: Nine States Awarded Race To The Top-Early Learning Challenge Grants Statement by the Press Secretary on the lifting of sanctions in Libya Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 94 Text: Statement by White House Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer on payroll tax cut legislation Released December 17 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 95 Released December 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of Chairman Kim Jong Il of North Korea Text: Statement by the Communications Director H. Daniel Pfeiffer on Senate action on payroll tax cut legislation Released December 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 535, S. 683, and S.J. Res. 22 Fact sheet: The United States National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security Text: The United States National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security Released December 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 470 and H.R. 2061 Released December 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Syria Released December 22 Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attacks in Iraq Released December 23 Statements by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2055, H.R. 2867, H.R. 3421, H.R. 3672, H.R. 3765, S. 278, and S. 384 Fact sheet: Successful Conclusion of the Seventh Review Conference of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention Released December 29 Statement by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest on the U.S. sale of defense equipment to Saudi Arabia Released December 31 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1540 