Administration of Barack Obama, 2011 Remarks at a State Dinner Honoring President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea October 13, 2011 [President Obama's remarks were joined in progress.] ——representing one of America's strongest allies and global partners, the Republic of Korea. I also want to acknowledge two guests in particular: another son of Korea dedicated to peace and security, the Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, is here; and our first Korean American Ambassador to the Republic of Korea, confirmed by the Senate today, Ambassador Sung Kim. Now, I'm going to be very brief tonight because President Lee has had a very full day and a very wet day—[laughter]—as well as extended meetings and press conferences, a State Department banquet, and an address to the Congress, which I understand went extraordinarily well. There is a reason why people call him "the Bulldozer." He is unstoppable. [Laughter] Mr. President, today you have spoken with great eloquence about what America and our alliance has meant in your life and the life of your country. This evening I want you and your countrymen to know what Korea and its people have meant to America. The essence of our alliance, I think, is embodied in a concept that is uniquely Korean. It doesn't translate that easily, but it reflects the deep affection, the bonds of the heart that cannot be broken and that grow stronger with time. Our Korean friends know it well: jeong. In our country, we've felt this jeong in our vibrant Korean American communities, including in Hawaii, where I grew up, a melting pot of cultures that made me who I am and that taught me we can all live together in mutual trust and respect. I felt this jeong during my visit to Korea on Veterans Day, the 60th anniversary of the Korean war, when our proud veterans of that war, both Korean and American, came together to celebrate a shared legacy: a free, democratic, and prosperous Republic of Korea. And I felt this jeong in my friendship with President Lee. Mr. President, your life story—from crushing poverty to the Presidency—is an inspiration. Your success, Korea's success, speaks to the truth that with education and hard work, anything is possible. It's a spirit our countries share. You've described it in Korean, and in English it translates as: "Yes we can." [Laughter] It sounds good in Korean too. [Laughter] Finally, I would note that in our lives President Lee and I have both been blessed to find our better halves, leaders in their own right, advocates for women and young people, who we are proud to call our First Ladies. Mr. President, as we say in America, we both married up. [Laughter] And so I want to propose a toast. I believe this is mine. [At this point, President Obama was handed a glass.] To our friends President Lee and First Lady Kim, and to their delegation, most of all to the enduring alliance between our nations, a partnership of the heart that will never be broken. Cheers. Gun bae. NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 8:30 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. In his remarks, he referred to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations; and Kim Yoon-ok, wife of President Lee. The transcript released by the Office of the Press Secretary also included the remarks of President Lee. Categories: Meetings With Foreign Leaders and International Officials : South Korea, President Lee. Locations: Washington, DC. Names: Ban Ki-moon; Kim Yoon-ok; Kim, Sung; Lee Myung-bak; Obama, Michelle. Subjects: South Korea : President; South Korea : Relations with U.S.; South Korea : U.S. Ambassador; United Nations : Secretary-General. DCPD Number: DCPD201100752. 