Administration of Barack Obama, 2016 Checklist of White House Press Releases March 18, 2016 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. January 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: New Executive Actions To Reduce Gun Violence and Make Our Communities Safer January 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President’s Interagency Task Force To Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons January 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest January 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest January 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in December 2015 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on updates to U.S. Government efforts to counter violent extremism January 10 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Guests in First Lady's Box—State of the Union Address January 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest January 12 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Istanbul, Turkey January 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest January 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Jakarta, Indonesia Fact sheet: The United States and Central America: Honoring Our Commitments January 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Maintaining Momentum in the Fight Against ISIL January 16 Fact sheet: Improving Economic Security by Strengthening and Modernizing the Unemployment Insurance System January 17 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by senior administration officials on Iran Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attacks in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso January 18 Statement by the Press Secretary: The President and First Lady, Cabinet Secretaries, and Senior Administration Officials Honor Martin Luther King, Jr., Day of Service January 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: United States-Australia Cooperation: Deepening Our Strategic Partnership January 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attacks in Pakistan and Afghanistan Fact sheet: How Bold Investments by the Administration in the Auto Industry and City of Detroit Put Americans Back to Work and Strengthened the Economy January 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruling in Murray Energy Corporation, et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency Fact sheet: President Obama Hosts Over 250 Mayors To Strengthen Partnerships and Grow the Economy Fact sheet: The Administration Announces Historic Commitments To Build Climate Resilient Communities January 23 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the escalating violence in Yemen January 25 Text of a Department of Justice report: Report and Recommendations Concerning the Use of Restrictive Housing Fact sheet: Department of Justice Review of Solitary Confinement January 26 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the publication of new regulatory changes regarding economic sanctions against Cuba Text of a Department of the Treasury press release: Treasury and Commerce Announce Further Amendments to the Cuba Sanctions Regulations Fact sheet: Building a 21st Century Retirement System January 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: FY17 Summer EBT Proposal Fact Sheet: Ensuring adequate food for children through Summer EBT (released by the Department of Agriculture) Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Major Investments in Preventing Child Hunger January 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 142, S. 1115, and S. 1629 January 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of gross domestic product for the fourth quarter of 2015 Text of a Council of Economic Advisers issue brief: The Gender Pay Gap on the Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Fact sheet: New Steps To Advance Equal Pay on the Seventh Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Fact sheet: Cities, Utilities, and Businesses Commit to Unlocking Access to Energy Data for Building Owners and Improving Energy Efficiency January 30 Fact sheet: President Obama Announces Computer Science for All Initiative February 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest February 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record press call by National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Mark Feierstein, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs Roberta S. Jacobson, and Special Envoy to the Colombia Peace Process Bernard W. Aronson to preview the visit of President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's visit to France Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Steps To Increase Nation's Resilience to Earthquakes Fact sheet: The FY2017 European Reassurance Initiative Budget Request Fact sheet: President Obama Proposes $1.1 Billion in New Funding To Address the Prescription Opioid Abuse and Heroin Use Epidemic February 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's visit to Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates February 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's visit to the United Kingdom Fact sheet: President Obama Proposes New "First Job" Funding To Connect Young Americans With Jobs and Skills Training To Start Their Careers Fact sheet: President Obama-'s 21st Century Clean Transportation System Fact sheet: Peace Colombia—A New Era of Partnership Between the United States and Colombia February 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the 5-year anniversary of the New START Treaty's entry into force Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in January February 6 Fact sheet: President’s Budget Proposal To Advance Mission Innovation Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the North Korean missile launch February 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony S. Fauci, and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Principal Deputy Director Anne Schuchat Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 515, H.R. 4188, and S. 2152 Fact sheet: Preparing for and Responding to the Zika Virus at Home and Abroad Fact sheet: U.S. Leadership in Securing First-Ever Global Carbon Emissions Standards for Commercial Airplanes February 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun L.S. Donovan, National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients, and Domestic Policy Council Director Cecilia Muñoz on the fiscal year 2017 budget Statement by the Press Secretary on the Supreme Court's order granting a stay in Chamber of Commerce, et al., v. Environmental Protection Agency, et al. Fact sheet: Cybersecurity National Action Plan Fact sheet: President Obama Proposes New Funding To Build Resilience of Alaska's Communities and Combat Climate Change Fact sheet: The President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget: Overview: Meeting Our Greatest Challenges February 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz February 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate passage of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Southeast Asian civil society leaders February 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Fact sheet: President Obama To Designate New National Monuments in the California Desert Fact sheet: Announcing the Winner of the Healthy Communities Challenge Fact sheet: Unprecedented U.S.-ASEAN Relations February 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice February 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey February 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Extraordinary Early-Career Scientists Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 757, H.R. 907, and H.R. 3033 February 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on civilian killings in Malakal, South Sudan February 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, National Governors Association Chair Governor Gary R. Herbert of Utah, and National Governors Association Vice Chair Governor Terence R. McAuliffe of Virginia February 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL Brett H. McGurk February 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Protecting American Workers & Businesses: The Obama Administration's Trade Enforcement Record Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 644 and H.R. 1428 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi of China February 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: Precision Medicine Initiative: Data Security Policy Principles and Framework Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: A Retrospective Assessment of Clean Energy Investments in the Recovery Act Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Key Actions To Accelerate Precision Medicine Initiative Fact sheet: White House Announces New Summer Opportunity Project Fact sheet: Seven Years Ago, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Helped Bring Our Economy Back From the Brink of a Second Great Depression Fact sheet: How the Recovery Act Helped Save Us From a Second Great Depression and Made Critical Investments in Our Long-Term Competitiveness Fact sheet: The Recovery Act Made the Largest Single Investment in Clean Energy in History, Driving the Deployment of Clean Energy, Promoting Energy Efficiency, and Supporting Manufacturing February 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jay C. Shambaugh on the second estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2015 February 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 487, H.R. 890, H.R. 3262, H.R. 4056, H.R. 4437, and S. 2109 March 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest March 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Transitional President Catherine Samba-Panza of the Central African Republic Fact sheet: The Affordable Care Act: Healthy Communities Six Years Later March 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz March 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in February March 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: The White House Launches "The Opportunity Project," Utilizing Open Data To Build Stronger Ladders of Opportunity for All Fact sheet: $2 Billion in New Private Sector Investments To Protect Natural Resources To Be Announced at White House Conservation Roundtable March 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest On-the-record press call by National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Mark B. Feierstein, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs Roberta S. Jacobson, and Special Envoy for Climate Change Todd D. Stern on the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada Statement by the Press Secretary: Release of the President's Medical Exam Text of a memorandum from Physician to the President Ronny L. Jackson to Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest: The President's Periodic Physical Exam Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar of India Fact sheet: White House Announces Doubling of TechHire Communities, and New Steps To Give More Students and Workers Tech Skills To Fuel the Next Generation of American Innovation (embargoed until March 9) March 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the ninth anniversary of the disappearance of Robert A. Levinson in Iran Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 238 and S. 1596 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with civil society leaders in advance of the President's trip to Cuba Text of a Council of Economic Advisers issue brief: The Digital Divide and Economic Benefits of Broadband Access Fact sheet: President Obama Announces ConnectALL Initiative March 10 Fact sheet: United States-Canada Relationship March 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest March 13 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Grand Bassam, Côte d'Ivoire March 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on South Africa and the African Growth and Opportunities Act March 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the publication of regulatory changes to U.S. sanctions against Cuba Text of a Department of the Treasury press release: Treasury and Commerce Announce Significant Amendments to the Cuba Sanctions Regulations Ahead of President Obama's Historic Trip to Cuba March 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a press call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Charge d'Affaires to Cuba Jeffrey Delaurentis, and National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Mark B. Feierstein to preview the President's travel to Cuba and Argentina Statement by the Press Secretary: Background on Judge Merrick Garland Statement by the Press Secretary on the Executive order entitled "Blocking Property of the Government of North Korea and the Workers' Party of Korea, and Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to North Korea" March 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest March 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1755, S. 1172, S. 1580, S. 1826, and S. 2426 