Administration of Barack Obama, 2016 Digest of Other White House Announcements March 18, 2016 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 1 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Waikiki, HI. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 2 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, HI, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President and his daughters Malia and Sasha traveled Honolulu, HI, where they visited his sister Maya Soetoro-Ng. Then, they and Ms. Soetoro-Ng's daughters Suhaila and Savita Ng traveled to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. Then, they traveled to the East-West Center. Later, they visited the Honolulu Zoo. Then, the President and his daughters returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following afternoon. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President declared an emergency in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning December 22, 2015, and continuing.  January 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from December 23 through 28, 2015. January 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Blue Room, he met with citizens affected by gun violence prior to delivering remarks on gun violence prevention efforts. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. During the day, the President was briefed on the death of S. Sgt. Matthew McClintock, USA, in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. January 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he was briefed on the nuclear test conducted by North Korea. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq to congratulate him on Iraqi forces' recent success in their effort to retake Ramadi from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization and underscore continuing U.S. support. They also discussed Iraq's economic stabilization efforts and the need to improve the structural integrity of the Mosul Dam, as well as regional issues, including Saudi Arabia's execution of Shia cleric Nimr Al-Nimr and Iraq-Turkey relations. He also had separate telephone conversations with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss the international response to North Korea's nuclear test and congratulate the two leaders on the recent South Korea-Japan agreement to resolve the "comfort women" issue from the World War II–era. During the day, also in the Oval Office, the President met with White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman, and National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients.  January 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President traveled to Fairfax, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. January 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a conference call with grassroots supporters to discuss gun violence prevention efforts. Then, also in the Oval Office, he participated in promotion ceremonies for Cmdr. Jillian C. Malzone, USCG, and Lt. Col. Andrew Steadman, USA, Military Aides to the President, and met with members of their families. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Malcolm B. Turnbull of Australia on January 19. January 9 The White House announced that the President will travel to Omaha, NE, on January 13. January 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, starting in the Grand Foyer, the President recorded an interview with Matt Lauer of NBC's "Today" program for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President will travel to Baton Rouge, LA, on January 13 and 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Todd A. Weiler to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Nelson Reyneri to be a member of the Board of Directors for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Kelly Keiderling-Franz to be Ambassador to Uruguay. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen M. Schwartz to be Ambassador to Somalia.  The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors for the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers: Raymond G. Farmer; Thomas McLeary; Michael J. Rothman; and Heather A. Steinmiller.  The President announced his intention to nominate J. Mark McWatters to be a member of the Board of Directors for the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas M. Gallas as a member of the National Capital Planning Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Ethel Brooks, Sara Darehshori, and Norman Eisen as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. January 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President posted a live video preview of his State of the Union Address to his Facebook feed. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Jimmy Morales as President of Guatemala in Guatemala City, Guatemala, on January 14: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); Todd Robinson; Jeh C. Johnson; Thomas R. Carper; Norma Torres; Thomas A. Shannon; and Mark Feierstein.  The President announced that he has nominated Winfield D. Ong to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. The President announced that he has nominated Myra C. Selby and Donald K. Schott to be judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. January 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  Also in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the importance of working toward a diplomatic solution to the crisis in Ukraine through full implementation of the Minsk agreements by all parties, the situation in Syria, including diplomatic efforts to resolve the conflict and the urgent humanitarian needs of the Syrian people, and the necessity for a strong and united international response to North Korea's recent nuclear test in defiance of Security Council resolutions. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he met with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Then, he traveled to Omaha, NE. Upon arrival, he traveled to Papillion, NE, where he visited with Lisa Martin, who had written him a letter on her concerns as a new mother, her husband Jeff, and their son Cooper. Then, he visited with some local neighborhood residents before leaving for the Baxter Arena in Omaha. In the evening, the President traveled to Baton Rouge, LA. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Holiday Inn Baton Rouge hotel, where he remained overnight. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Nicholas L. Saban of the University of Alabama football team to congratulate him on his team's victory in the 2015 College Football Playoff National Championship. January 14 In the morning, from Room A111 of McKinley Senior High School, the President participated in a Twitter question-and-answer session In the afternoon, en route to the Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, the President stopped at Poor Boy Lloyd's restaurant, where he purchased sandwiches and visited with patrons. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President met with Ben Simmons, a freshman on the Louisiana State University basketball team. January 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to congratulate him on the arrest of Sinaloa drug cartel leaderJoaquin "El Chapo" Guzmán Loera and review broader security and economic issues, including the importance of taking steps to advance the approval of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the East Room, he participated in separate live interviews with YouTube hosts Destin Sandlin, Ingrid Nilsen, and Adande "Swoozie" Thorne for online broadcast. Later in the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with his National Security Council to discuss the campaign to degrade and destroy the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The President was briefed on recent progress by Iraqi security forces in taking back Ramadi and ways in which the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL can continue to accelerate and integrate the military campaign on all possible fronts in Iraq and Syria. The White House announced that the President will award National Medal of Science and National Medal of Technology and Innovation to 17 scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and innovators on January 22. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from November 12 through 21, 2015. January 16 The President declared an emergency in Michigan in response to a request from the Governor submitted on January 14, 2016, and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions in the area affected by contaminated water. In the evening, at the Oyamel Cocina Mexicana restaurant, the President and Mrs. Obama had dinner. January 17 The White House announced that the President will travel to Detroit, MI, on January 20. January 18 In the afternoon, at the Leckie Elementary School, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a community service event in commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr., Day. Wendy Spencer, Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, also attended. January 19 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to express his condolences for and condemnation of the January 12 terrorist attack in Istanbul, pledge continued cooperation in the fight against terrorism including degrading and ultimately destroying the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and discuss the recent string of attacks against Turkish security forces by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the urgent need for deescalation. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Prime Minister Malcolm B. Turnbull had a working lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. During the day, the President met with Mayor Karen Williams Weaver of Flint, MI, to discuss the city's contaminated tap water supply and efforts to restore access to safe water for residents, including Federal emergency assistance. January 20 In the morning, the President traveled to Detroit, MI, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled the Jolly Pumpkin Pizzeria and Brewery, where he had lunch with Mayor Michael E. Duggan of Detroit, Shinola Founder Tom Kartzotis, Henry Ford Health System emergency physician Tolulope Sonuyi, and United Automobile Workers (UAW) Local 22 member and General Motors Co. autoworker Teana Dowdell. Later, he visited Shinola's flagship storefront adjacent to the restaurant. Then, he traveled to the Cobo Center, where he met with North American International Auto Show (NAIAS) Chairman Paul Sabatini, Cochair Sam Slaughter, and Executive Director Rod Alberts, followed by a tour of NAIAS exhibits with Chairman Sabatini, UAW President Dennis Williams, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Vice President of Vehicle Engineering Mitch Clauw, General Motors Co. President Daniel L. Amman, and Chevrolet Bolt EV specialist Patrick Foley. Later, also at the Cobo Center, he recorded an interview with Lee Cowan  of CBS News for later broadcast. Later in the afternoon, in the Hi-Bay Training Room at the UAW–GM Center for Human Resources, the President continued his interview with Lee Cowan of CBS News. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. January 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to offer his condolences for the loss of German life in the January 12 attack in Istanbul, Turkey, discuss the European response to the influx of Middle Eastern and North African refugees, underscore the importance of global efforts to address the humanitarian crisis in Syria, and review the situation in Ukraine. The White House announced that the National Medal of Science and National Medal of Technology and Innovation presentation ceremony scheduled for January 22 would be postponed due to inclement weather. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from December 23, 2015 to January 9, 2016. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from December 23 through 31, 2015. January 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President recorded an interview with Glenn Thrush for Politico's "Off Message" podcast for later online broadcast. January 24 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with former President Shimon Peres of Israel to wish him a speedy recovery following his recent heart attack. January 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he visited with wounded U.S. servicemembers and their families. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. January 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss legislative priorities in advance of the House Democratic Issues Conference later in the week. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in  an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg of the Atlantic magazine. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with leaders of his health and national security teams, including Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Thomas R. Frieden, and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease Director Anthony S. Fauci, to discuss the spread of Zika and other mosquito-borne viruses in the Americas as well as steps being taken to protect the U.S. public and the potential economic and developmental impacts of the Zika virus spreading in the Western Hemisphere. The President emphasized the need to accelerate research efforts to make available better diagnostic tests, develop vaccines and therapeutics, and ensure that all U.S. citizens have information about the Zika virus and steps they can take to better protect themselves from infection. January 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Sen. Bernard Sanders. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he recorded separate "Live From the White House" television interviews with Curt Autry for WWBT in Richmond, VA; Jim Rosenfield for WCAU in Philadelphia, PA; Joyce Garbaciak for WISN in Milwaukee, WI; Deanie Wimmer for KSL in Salt Lake City, UT; Jim Benemann for KCNC in Denver, CO; David Ono for KABC in Los Angeles, CA; and Allen Martin for KPIX in Oakland, CA, all for later broadcast, to discuss the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the importance of reducing the number of people without health insurance, and the approaching January 31 deadline for enrollment in 2016 marketplace coverage. January 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with the National Security Council to discuss the intensification of the U.S. campaign to degrade and destroy the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, efforts to integrate the military campaign and diplomatic efforts on all possible fronts, including working with international partners to counter ISIL's stated goal of expansion beyond Iraq and Syria, in particular Libya and other countries where ISIL has sought to establish a presence. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Later, he traveled to Baltimore, MD, arriving in the evening.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has nominated Terrence J. Campbell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas. The President announced that he has nominated Jennifer Klemetsrud Puhl to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. January 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Dilma Vana Rousseff of Brazil to discuss shared concerns over the spread of the Zika virus in the Western Hemisphere, the importance of collaborative efforts to deepen knowledge, advance research, and accelerate work to develop better vaccines and other technologies to control the virus, and the crucial need to prioritize building national, regional, and global capacity to combat infectious disease threats more broadly.  The White House announced that the President will meet with Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul D. Ryan and Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell on February 2 to discuss legislative priorities for the congressional session ahead and areas of potential compromise. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Sergio Mattarella of Italy on February 8. The White House announced that the President will travel to Springfield, IL, on February 10 to address the Illinois General Assembly. The President announced his intention to nominate R. David Harden to be Assistant Administrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Traci D. Blackmon, Rachel Held Evans, and Adam Hamilton as members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. January 30 In the afternoon, at the home of Vernon E. Jordan, Jr., the President and White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett attended the Alfalfa Club luncheon. The White House announced that the President will travel to Baltimore, MD, on February 3. February 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. In the afternoon, in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with administration officials and research experts serving on the White House Cancer Moonshot Task Force. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2015 National Basketball Association Champion Golden State Warriors on February 4.  The President declared a major disaster in Idaho and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storms from December 16 through 27, 2015. February 2 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David W.D. Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in Syria, including international humanitarian support for those displaced by the violence and efforts to alleviate the refugee inflows in Europe, note the ongoing initiative to resolve the political impasse in Libya, and review U.K. negotiations with European Union leaders to reform its membership status. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul D. Ryan and Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell to discuss legislative priorities for the congressional session ahead and areas of potential compromise. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Speaker Ryan. The White House announced that the President will present the Medal of Honor to Senior Chief Petty Officer Edward C. Byers, USN, on February 29. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, straight-line winds, flooding, landslides, mudslides, and a tornado from December 1 through 14, 2015. February 3 In the morning, the President traveled to Catonsville, MD, where at the Islamic Society of Baltimore, he participated in a roundtable discussion with Muslim leaders from around the country. In the afternoon, in the gymnasium of the Al-Rahmah School on the campus of the Islamic Society of Baltimore, the President visited with students who had gathered to listen to his earlier remarks. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Later, in Rooms 210 and 212 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he dropped by a meeting of the White House Rural Council to thank the Council for its work and discuss ways in which to target Federal resources to help rural communities confront the challenges of financial stress, mental health, and the opioid epidemic. February 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia. Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Deputy Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, and Colombia's Minister of Foreign Relations Maria Angela Holguin Cuellar and Minister of Interior Juan Fernando Cristo Bustos also attended. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Sens. Charles E. Grassley and Robert W. Goodlatte to discuss criminal justice reform legislation. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie A. Finley to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Claude J. Kelly III to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Patrick A. Burke to be a U.S. Marshal for the District of Columbia. February 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to coordinate diplomatic efforts in response to North Korea's January 6 nuclear test, reaffirm their commitment to the complete and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, reiterate that North Korea's planned ballistic missile test would violate multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions, and emphasize the importance of a strong and united international response. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr., to discuss legislative priorities for the congressional session ahead. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President recorded a segment with Stephen T. Colbert for CBS's "Late Show With Stephen Colbert" for later broadcast.  The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from December 26, 2015 to January 22, 2016. The President declared an emergency in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions in the area affected by flooding from December 28, 2015 through February 1, 2016. February 7 In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a live pre-Super Bowl 50 interview with Gayle King of the "CBS This Morning" program. Then, in the Oval Office, he continued his interview with Gayle King for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President will travel to Springfield, IL, on February 10. February 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada to discuss Canada's role in the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL and Canada-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with President Sergio Mattarella of Italy. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea to discuss North Korea's recent ballistic missile launch, reiterate South Korea-U.S. solidarity, and emphasize the need for a strong and united international response. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss North Korea's provocations, Japan-U.S. security cooperation, and the importance of forging a united strong international response to North Korea's actions.  The White House announced that the President will travel to San Jose, CA, on February 11. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Abdullah II of Jordan on February 24. February 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid, Sen. Charles E. Schumer, and Rep. Steven J. Israel to discuss the President's 2017 Federal budget proposal and domestic and national security priorities over the coming months. Later, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Gary W. Kubiak and team captain and offensive linebacker DeMarcus Ware of the National Football League's Denver Broncos to congratulate them on their team's victory in Super Bowl 50. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on February 11. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from December 26, 2015 through January 21.  February 10 In the morning, the President traveled to Springfield, IL. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Feed Store restaurant, where he ordered lunch, greeted patrons and staff, and posed in photographs.  In the afternoon, at the Hoogland Center for the Arts, the President and former State Sens. Kirk W. Dillard, Dennis J. Jacobs, and Lawrence M. Walsh, Jr., participated in an interview  with Christi Parsons of the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles Times for later broadcast online. Later, he traveled to San Jose, CA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to the Sheraton San Jose Hotel in Milpitas, CA, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Palm Springs, CA, on February 12. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storms and flooding from December 26, 2015 through January 5  February 11 In the morning, the President traveled to a private residence in Palo Alto, CA, where he attended a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee fundraiser.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Atherton, CA. Later, he traveled to Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, CA, where he recorded an interview with Ellen DeGeneres of NBC's "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" for later broadcast. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA.  In the evening, the President traveled to the W Los Angeles-West Beverly Hills hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2015 Stanley Cup Champion Chicago Blackhawks on February 18. The President announced his intention to nominate John B. King, Jr., to be Secretary of Education. The President announced that he has nominated Abdul K. Kallon to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. February 12 In the morning, the President traveled to Palm Springs, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he toured areas comprising the newly established national monuments in Southern California: Castle Mountains National Monument, Mojave Trails National Monument, and Sand to Snow National Monument. Upon arrival, he traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, the President traveled to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight. The President announced his intention to nominate Christine A. Elder to be Ambassador to Liberia. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Holzhall Richard to be Ambassador to Lebanon. The President announced his intention to nominate Ranvir Trehan to be a General Trustee on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Raymond Bogan to be a U.S. Commissioner to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas. The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon H. Yuan and Miriam Sapiro to be members of the Panel of Arbitrators of the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. February 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Thunderbird Country Club. Then, he returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights. Later, he traveled to La Quinta, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President returned to a private residence in Rancho Mirage, CA. Also in the afternoon, he was informed of the death of Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin G. Scalia. Later in the afternoon, following his remarks at Omni Rancho Las Palmas Resort and Spa, the President returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Eugene Scalia, son of Associate Justice Antonin Scalia, to pass along his and Mrs. Obama's condolences to the entire Scalia family on the passing of his father. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the February 11 meeting of the International Syria Support Group and stress the importance of delivering humanitarian aid to besieged areas of Syria in addition to implementing a nationwide cessation of hostilities. In particular, President Obama urged Russia to play a constructive role by ending its air campaign against moderate opposition forces in Syria. They also discussed the situation in Ukraine and the need for separatist forces to fulfill their Minsk agreement obligations, especially adhering to the cease-fire and ensuring full access for the special monitoring mission of the Organization for Security and Co-Operation in Europe in eastern Ukraine.  February 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Thunderbird Country Club. Then, he returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights. Later, he traveled to the Porcupine Creek Golf Course. In the evening, the President returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight.  February 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Thunderbird Country Club. Then, he returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights. Later, he traveled to the Annenberg Retreat atSunnylands Estate. In the afternoon, the President returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights. Later, he traveled to the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands Estate, where at the Sunnylands Center, he greeted leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). In the evening, the President returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights. Then, he traveled to the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands Estate, where at the Historic House, he hosted a working dinner for ASEAN leaders. Later, he returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight. During the day, on the margins of the U.S.-ASEAN Leaders Summit  at Sunnylands, the President met with Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung of Vietnam to discuss Vietnam-U.S. relations and note President Obama's acceptance of Vietnam's invitation to visit in May when he travels to Japan for the Group of Seven (G–7) nations summit. February 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Thunderbird Country Club. Then, he returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights. Later, he traveled to the Annenberg Retreat atSunnylands Estate, where, in the Historic House, he attended a second retreat session with leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Then, he participated in a family photograph with ASEAN leaders. In the afternoon, the President recorded an interview with Lin Xueling of Channel NewsAsia for later broadcast. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. February 17 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. In the evening, at the BLT Steak restaurant, the President had dinner with actor Morgan Freeman and Obama Foundation advisers working on plans for siting a Presidential library in Chicago, IL. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will attend a public viewing of Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin G. Scalia who will lie in repose in the Great Hall at the U.S. Supreme Court on February 19. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas E. Donilon as Chair of the Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity. The President announced his intention to appoint Samuel J. Palmisano as Vice Chair of the Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm from December 12 through 15, 2015. The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storms, straight-line winds, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from December 6 through 23, 2015. February 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with members of the family of civil rights icon Martin Luther King, Jr., and showed them the bust newly displayed in the Oval Office in commemoration of Dr. King's legacy. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Minority Leader Harry M. Reid, and Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick J. Leahy to discuss his intentions to nominate a Supreme Court Associate Justice.  Also during the day, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama met with Virginia McClaurin, a 106-year-old Washington, DC, resident who was at the White House to attend the Black History Month reception in the East Room. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Cuba on March 21 and 22 and Argentina on March 23 and 24. February 19 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Syria and Turkish-U.S. counterterrorism cooperation, in particular the shared goal of degrading and ultimately destroying the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The President condemned and offered condolences for the February 17 terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey, and the February 18 terrorist attack against a Turkish military convoy in Diyarbakir Province, expressed concern about recent Syrian regime advances in northwest Syria, and called for a halt to actions that heighten tensions between Turkey and moderate opposition forces in northern Syria and undermine collective efforts in northern Syria to degrade and defeat ISIL. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley to discuss his intentions to nominate a Supreme Court Associate Justice. In the afternoon, at the U.S. Supreme Court, the President and Mrs. Obama met with members of Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin G. Scalia's family to extend their personal condolences on behalf of the Nation and express gratitude for Justice Scalia's decades of public service. Then, in the Great Hall, he and Mrs. Obama attended a public viewing of Justice Scalia who lay in repose until his funeral on February 20. The President announced his intention to appoint David Benton as a member of the Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education: Phyliss J. Anderson; Mandy Broaddus; Dahkota Kicking Bear Brown; and Joely Proudfit. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert O. Carr and Keith T. Parker as members of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council. February 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Syria, in particular the international diplomatic efforts to establish a cease-fire between the Syrian regime and the armed opposition, and the situation in Ukraine, with President Obama stressing the importance of separatist forces in eastern Ukraine fulfilling their obligations under the Minsk agreements by honoring the cease-fire and permitting the special monitoring mission of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe full access to the conflict area. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor Bobby J. Hopewell of Kalamazoo, MI, City Manager James Ritsema, Deputy City Manager Jeff Chamberlain, Kalamazoo County Sheriff Richard C. Fuller III, and Kalamazoo Public Safety Chief Jeffrey Hadley to offer his condolences for the loss of life and injuries in the February 20 shootings and offer any Federal support needed in pursuing their investigation. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, on the South Lawn, he recorded an interview with actor Leonardo DiCaprio for a documentary film on climate change.  The White House released further details on the President's presentation of the Medal of Honor to Senior Chief Petty Officer Edward C. Byers, Jr., USN, on February 29. February 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President participated in a video conference with Prime Minister David W.D. Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Syria, including international diplomatic efforts to negotiate a cease-fire, and the ongoing refugee and migration crisis in Europe, in particular the importance of the NATO mission and coordination between Greece and Turkey to manage the flow of migrants into Europe. Later, in the Gallatin West Room of the Jefferson, Washington, DC hotel, he attended a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee roundtable fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will travel to Jacksonville, FL, on February 26. February 24 In the morning, the President published a guest post titled "A Responsibility I Take Seriously" on SCOTUSblog.com, a Supreme Court of the United States-themed website. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Veterans of Foreign Wars Commander-in-Chief John A. Biedrzycki and Executive Director Robert E. Wallace. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, Senate President pro tempore and former chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, to discuss his intentions to nominate a Supreme Court Associate Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Carla D. Hayden to be Librarian of Congress. February 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he met with Sen. A. Lamar Alexander, Jr. In the afternoon, the South Court Auditorium, the President recorded an interview with James Hamblin of the Atlantic magazine's "If Our Bodies Could Talk" video series for later broadcast online. Later, in the Holbrooke Conference Room at the Department of State, he met with the National Security Council. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss Italy-U.S. cooperation in the effort to defeat Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, strategies to manage the flow of migrants into Europe, and ways to improve the economic situation in Europe. The White House announced that the President will meet on March 1 with Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Minority Leader Harry M. Reid, Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley, and Ranking Member Patrick J. Leahy to discuss his intentions to nominate a Supreme Court Associate Justice. The President announced that he has nominated Donald W. Beatty and Donald C. Coggins, Jr., to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Lucy Haeran Koh to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. February 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Jacksonville, FL, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor David K. Kauffman of Hesston, KS, to discuss the shootings in Newton, KS, and Excel Industries in Hesston on February 25, offer his condolences for the loss of life, and extend his gratitude to police officer and other first responders who acted quickly to save lives. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Saft America, Inc., advanced batteries plant, where he toured manufacturing facilities with Saft America, Inc. President Thomas J. Alcide, plant employee Jim Mastronardi, and Rep. Patrick E. Murphy. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced further details on the President's March 1 meeting with Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Minority Leader Harry M. Reid, Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley, and Ranking Member Patrick J. Leahy to discuss his intentions to nominate a Supreme Court Associate Justice. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2015 College Football Playoff National Champion University of Alabama Crimson on March 2. The White House announced further details on the state visit of Prime Minister Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada on March 10. The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from December 22, 2015 through January 13. February 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President participated in an interview with American Ballet Theatre principal dancer Misty Copeland and Maya Rhodan of Time magazine. The White House announced that the President will travel to Milwaukee, WI, on March 3. March 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with a delegation of scouts from Boy Scouts of America, who presented him with their annual report and discussed their youth development initiatives. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Minority Leader Harry M. Reid, Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley, and Ranking Member Patrick J. Leahy to discuss the President's intentions to nominate a Supreme Court Associate Justice. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch.  March 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S.: Pierre Clive Agius of Malta, Elisenda Vives Balmaña of Andorra, Armando Varricchio of Italy, and David B. MacNaughton of Canada. Later, he had a telephone conversation with NASA astronaut Cmdr. Scott J. Kelly to welcome him back to Earth from his record-breaking yearlong mission on the International Space Station, thank him for his service and for sharing his journey with people across the globe through social media, and note his participation in important research, which will help inspire a new generation of young people to pursue studies and careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics and keep the U.S. a leader in space exploration. March 3 In the morning, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI. In the afternoon, at the Engine Company 3 restaurant, the President had lunch with Mosinee, WI, resident Brent Brown, Springfield, IL, resident Karen George, and Milwaukee, WI, residents Karen and Sharon Szyszko and Susan W. Campbell, who had written to the President about their positive experiences with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher J. Brummer to be a Commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan L. Castaneda to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers. The President announced his intention to nominate Roberto R. Herencia to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian D. Quintenz to be a Commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint J. Todd Breasseale as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Abbey Johnston as a member of the Medal of Valor Review Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Jennifer Sheehy as a member of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he participated in a video conference with President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai and Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah of Afghanistan to congratulate them on the National Unity Government's recent progress in naming candidates for cabinet positions and new leadership of the High Peace Council, and note the Afghan Government's ongoing commitment to reform and accountability measures and efforts to deepen regional cooperation and advance the reconciliation process with the Taliban, and commend Afghan security forces for their bravery and sacrifices in improving stability and security. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. He also had a meeting with senior staff to discuss his intentions to nominate an Associate Justice for the U.S. Supreme Court. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement the District's recovery efforts in the area affected by a snowstorm on January 22 and 23. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on January 22 and 23. March 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement commonwealth, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 22 through 23. March 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President met with student delegates from the 54th Annual U.S. Senate Youth Program and participated in a group photograph. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The White House announced that the President will travel to Austin, TX, on March 11. The White House announced that the President will travel to Dallas, TX, on March 11 and 12. March 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President recorded an interview with Juan Carlos López of CNN en Español for later broadcast. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. March 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Prime Minister Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada. National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, U.S. Ambassador to Canada Bruce Heyman, Canada's Ambassador to the U.S. David MacNaughton, Minister of Foreign Affairs Stephane Dion, Minister of National Defense Harjit Singh Sajjan, and Minister of Environment and Climate Change Catherine McKenna also attended. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama, greeted Prime Minister Trudeau and his wife Sophie Grégoire-Trudeau, followed by an official photograph on the Grand Foyer Staircase. March 11 In the morning, the President traveled to Austin, TX, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Torchy's Tacos restaurant, where, with Mayor Stephen I. Adler of Austin, TX, he purchased lunch and greeted staff. Later, he traveled to the Joe R. and Teresa Lozana Long Center for Performing Arts, where, in the AT&T Room, he met with entrepreneurs, filmmakers, organizers, and technology industry leaders to discuss efforts to counter the recruitment and messaging of violent extremist groups through media. In the evening, the President traveled to Dallas, TX. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Dallas Sheraton Hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland on March 15. March 12 In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. March 13 The declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 8 and continuing. March 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, following his remarks at the Global Chiefs of Mission Conference at the Department of State, in a diplomatic reception room, he met with Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian, who was released from detention in Iran in January, and his wife Yeganeh Salehi. National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL Brett H. McGurk also attended. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with lawmakers and stakeholders who supported the effort to designate three new national monuments in the California desert: Castle Mountains National Monument, Mojave Trails National Monument, and Sand to Snow National Monument.  Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in an interview with Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the Broadway musical "Hamilton." Then, in the Rose Garden, he recorded a video in which he held cue cards while Mr. Miranda performed a free-style rap about his visit to the White House for later broadcast online. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation and Syria, including implementation of the cessation of hostilities between the Syrian regime and the armed opposition and President Putin's announcement of a partial withdrawal of Russian forces from Syria, the need for regime forces to allow access for the delivery of humanitarian assistance, and additional efforts to encourage a political transition in Syria. They also discussed the situation in Ukraine, with President Obama emphasizing the need for combined Russian-separatist forces to implement the cease-fire in eastern Ukraine and allow Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe monitors access to separatist-controlled areas, including the Russia-Ukraine border.  March 15 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President dropped by a meeting between Vice President Joe Biden, First Minister Arlene Foster and Deputy First Minister J. Martin P. McGuinness of Northern Ireland and former Sen. Gary W. Hart, who has served as Secretary of State John F. Kerry's Personal Representative for Northern Ireland. He and Vice President Biden congratulated the First Minister on her election to office in January and commended both leaders progress in the Northern Ireland peace process, specifically the successful conclusion of the Stormont House Agreement in December 2014 and the Fresh Start Agreement in November 2015. Later, in the Map Room, he recorded an interview with Andy Katz and Rebecca Lobo of ESPN for later broadcast.  The President announced that he has nominated Rebecca Ross Haywood to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Walter D. Counts III to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated E. Scott Frost, James W. Hendrix and Irma Carrillo Ramirez to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Karen Gren Scholer to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Kathleen Marie Sweet to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Danny C. Reeves to be a judge on the U.S. Sentencing Commission. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 22 through 24. March 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Cuban American leaders, including civil society advocates, faith leaders, and representatives from the private sector, in advance of his trip to Cuba, to discuss the recent regulatory changes made by the Departments of the Treasury and Commerce and the impact those changes would have on the ability of U.S. citizens to travel to Cuba and engage directly with the Cuban people and reiterate his intentions to meet with Cuban Government officials, entrepreneurs, and members of civil society while in Havana. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he listened to and visited with a women's choir from Spelman College, who were visiting the White House for a celebration of Women's History Month. The White House announced that the President will travel to Saudi Arabia on April 21, that he will then travel to the United Kingdom, and that he will conclude his travel by visiting Germany, as previously announced. The President declared a major disaster in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the severe winter storm and flooding on January 22 and 23. March 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he recorded an interview with Nina Totenberg of NPR for later broadcast. In the afternoon, the President participated in a conference call with stakeholders to thank them for their work in support of Associate Justice-designate Merrick B. Garland's confirmation process. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne Hall to be Ambassador to Lithuania. The President announced his intention to nominate James X. Dempsey to be member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Doug Wilson to be member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. The President announced his intention to nominate Almo J. Carter and Larry T. Glenn to be Commissioners United States Parole Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey A. Rosen to be a Governor on the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to appoint Ilona R. Cohen and Geovette E. Washington as a members of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States. The President announced that he has nominated Lisabeth Tabor Hughes to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. March 18 In the afternoon, the President recorded a telephone sketch with Cuban comedian Luis "Pánfilo" Silva, ahead of the President's trip to Cuba, for later broadcast. During the day, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on the arrest in Brussels, Belgium, of Salah Abdeslam, the sole surviving suspected accomplice in the terrorist attacks in Paris, France, on November 13, 2015. Also during the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Charles Yvon Michel of Belgium and President François Hollande of France to congratulate them on the arrest of Salah Abdeslam in Brussels, commend the work of Belgian security services and close cooperation between Belgian and French law enforcement authorities, and reiterated that the United States stands together with Belgium and France in the fight against terrorism and joint efforts to degrade and destroying the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The White House announced that the President welcome the leaders of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden for a U.S.-Nordic Leaders Summit on May 13. Names: Abadi, Haider al-; Abdeslam, Salah; Abdullah II, King; Abdullah, Abdullah; Abe, Shinzo; Adler, Stephen I.; Agius, Pierre Clive; Alberts, Rod; Alcide, Thomas J.; Alexander, A. Lamar, Jr.; Anderson, Phyliss J.; Autry, Curt; Balmaña, Elisenda Vives; Beatty, Donald W.; Benemann, Jim; Benton, David; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Biedryzcki, John A.; Blackmon, Traci D.; Blinken, Antony J.; Bogan, Raymond; Breasseale, J. Todd; Broaddus, Mandy; Brooks, Ethel; Brown, Brent; Brown, Dahkota Kicking Bear; Brummer, Christopher J.; Burke, Patrick A.; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Byers, Edward C.; Byers, Edward C., Jr.; Cameron, David W.D.; Campbell, Susan W.; Campbell, Terrence J.; Carper, Thomas R.; Carr, Robert O.; Carter, Almo J.; Carter, Ashton B.; Casey, Robert P., Jr.; Castaneda, Susan L.; Chamberlain, Jeff; Clauw, Mitch; Coggins, Donald C., Jr.; Cohen, Ilona R.; Colbert, Stephen T.; Copeland, Misty; Counts, Walter D., III; Cowan, Lee; Cristo Bustos, Juan Fernando; Darehshori, Sara; DeGeneres, Ellen; Dempsey, James X.; DiCaprio, Leonardo; Dillard, Kirk W.; Dion, Stephane; Donilon, Thomas E.; Dowdell, Teana; Duggan, Michael E.; Eisen, Norman; Elder, Christine A.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Evans, Rachel Held; Farmer, Raymond G.; Fauci, Anthony S.; Feierstein, Mark; Finley, Stephanie A.; Foster, Arlene; Freeman, Morgan; Frieden, Thomas R.; Frost, E. Scott; Fuller, Richard C., III; Furman, Jason L.; Gallas, Thomas M.; Garbaciak, Joyce; Garland, Merrick B.; George, Karen; Ghani Ahmadzai, Ashraf; Glenn, Larry T.; Goldberg, Jeffrey; Goodlatte, Robert W.; Grassley, Charles E.; Grégoire-Trudeau, Sophie; Guzmán Loera, Joaquin "El Chapo"; Hadley, Jeffrey; Hall, Anne; Hamblin, James; Hamilton, Adam; Harden, R. David; Hart, Gary W.; Hatch, Orrin G.; Hayden, Carla D.; Haywood, Rebecca Ross; Hendrix, James W.; Herencia, Roberto R.; Heyman, Bruce; Holguin Cuellar, Maria Angela; Hollande, François; Hopewell, Bobby J.; Hughes, Lisabeth Tabor; Israel, Steven J.; Jacobs, Dennis J.; Jarrett, Valerie B.; Johnson, Jeh C.; Johnston, Abbey; Jordan, Vernon E., Jr.; Kallon, Abdul K.; Kartzotis, Tom; Katz, Andy; Kauffman, David K.; Keiderling-Franz, Kelly; Kelly, Claude J., III; Kelly, Scott J.; Kenny, Enda; Kerry, John F.; King, Gayle; King, John B., Jr.; Koh, Lucy Haeran; Kubiak, Gary W.; Lauer, Matt; Leahy, Patrick J.; Lew, Jacob J.; Lin Xueling; Lobo, Rebecca; López, Juan Carlos; MacNaughton, David; MacNaughton, David B.; Malzone, Jillian C.; Martin, Allen; Martin, Cooper; Martin, Jeff; Martin, Lisa; Mastronardi, Jim; Mattarella, Sergio; McClaurin, Virginia; McClintock, Matthew; McConnell, A. Mitchell; McDonough, Denis R.; McGuinness, J. Martin P.; McGurk, Brett H.; McKenna, Catherine; McLeary, Thomas; McWatters, J. Mark; Merkel, Angela; Michel, Charles Yvon; Miranda, Lin-Manuel; Monaco, Lisa O.; Morales, Jimmy; Murphy, Patrick E.; Ng, Savita; Ng, Suhaila; Nguyen Tan Dung; Nilsen, Ingrid; Nimr, Nimr Al-; Obama, Malia; Obama, Michelle; Obama, Natasha "Sasha"; Ong, Winfield D.; Ono, David; Palmisano, Samuel J.; Park Geun-hye; Parker, Keith T.; Parsons, Christi; Pelosi, Nancy; Peña Nieto, Enrique; Peres, Shimon; Proudfit, Joely; Puhl, Jennifer Klemetsrud; Putin, Vladimir Vladimirovich; Quintenz, Brian D.; Ramirez, Irma Carrillo; Reeves, Danny C.; Reid, Harry M.; Renzi, Matteo; Reyneri, Nelson; Rezaian, Jason; Rhodan, Maya; Rice, Susan E.; Richard, Elizabeth Holzhall; Ritsema, James; Robinson, Todd; Rosen, Jeffrey A.; Rosenfield, Jim; Rothman, Michael J.; Rousseff, Dilma Vana; Ryan, Paul D.; Saban, Nicholas L.; Sabatini, Paul; Sajjan, Harjit Singh; Salehi, Yeganeh; Sanders, Bernard; Sandlin, Destin; Santos Calderon, Juan Manuel; Sapiro, Miriam; Scalia, Antonin G.; Scalia, Eugene; Scholer, Karen Gren; Schott, Donald K.; Schumer, Charles E.; Schwartz, Stephen M.; Shannon, Thomas A.; Sheehy, Jennifer; Shelby, Myra C.; Silva, Luis "Pánfilo"; Simmons, Ben; Slaughter, Sam; Soetoro-Ng, Maya; Sonuyi, Tolulope; Steadman, Andrew; Steinmiller, Heather A.; Sweet, Kathleen Marie; Szyszko, Karen; Szyszko, Sharon; Thorne, Adande \Swoozie"; Thrush, Glenn; Torres, Norma; Totenberg, Nina; Trehan, Ranvir; Trudeau, Justin P.J.; Turnbull, Malcolm B.; Varricchio, Armando; Wallace, Robert E.; Walsh, Lawrence M., Jr.; Ware, DeMarcus; Washington, Geovette E.; Weaver, Karen Williams; Weiler, Todd A.; Williams, Dennis; Wilson, Doug; Wimmer, Deanie; Xi Jinping; Yuan, Sharon H.; Zients, Jeffrey D. Subjects: ; Administrative Conference of the United States, Council of the; Afghanistan : Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : Chief Executive Officer; Afghanistan : Former regime; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : Reconciliation efforts; Alabama, disaster assistance; Alaska, disaster assistance; Alfalfa Club; Andorra, Ambassador to U.S.; Arctic Research Commission; Argentina : President Obama's visit; Arkansas, disaster assistance; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S.: Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Asia : Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); Association of Registered Agents and Brokers, National; Atlantic magazine; Atlantic Tunas, International Commission for the Conservation of; Australia : Prime Minister; Belgium : Prime Minister; Belgium, arrest of Salah Abdeslam in Brussels; Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase From People Who Are; Boy Scouts of America; Brazil : President; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2017 budget; California : Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands Estate in Rancho Mirage; California : Castle Mountains National Monument; California : Democratic Party events; California : KABC in Los Angeles; California : KPIX in Oakland; California : Mojave Trails National Monument; California : President's visit; California : President's visits; California : Sand to Snow National Monument; California : Sheraton San Jose Hotel in Milpitas; California : W Los Angeles-West Beverly Hills hotel in Los Angeles; California : Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank; Canada : Ambassador to U.S.; Canada : Minister of Environment and Climate Change; Canada : Minister of Foreign Affairs; Canada : Minister of National Defense; Canada : Prime Minister; Canada : Relations with U.S.; Canada : U.S. Ambassador; Cancer Moonshot Task Force, White House; Capital Planning Commission, National; CBS : "CBS This Morning" program; CBS : "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert"; CBS News; Channel NewsAsia; Chicago Tribune; China : President; Civil rights : Civil rights movement; CNN en Español; Colombia : Minister of Foreign Relations; Colombia : Minister of Interior; Colombia : President; Colorado : KCNC in Denver; Commerce, international : Group of Seven (G–7) nations; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Communications : News media, Presidential interviews; Congress : Bipartisanship; Congress : House of Representatives : Minority leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Minority leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Congress : Members, meeting with President; Congress : Members, meetings with President; Congress : Senate :: Judiciary Committee; Congress : Senate :: Majority leader; Congress : Senate :: Minority leader; Cuba : President Obama's visit; Cuba : Relations with U.S.; Cybersecurity, Commission on Enhancing National; Deaths : McClintock, Matthew; Deaths : Scalia, Antonin G., Supreme Court Associate Justice; Decorations, medals, and awards : Medal of Honor; Decorations, medals, and awards : Science, National Medal of; Decorations, medals, and awards : Technology and Innovation, National Medal of; Defense, Department of : Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Defense, Department of : Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, MD; Delaware : Disaster assistance; Democratic Party : Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee; Development, U.S. Agency for International; Disaster assistance : Alabama; Disaster assistance : Alaska; Disaster assistance : Arkansas; Disaster assistance : Delaware; Disaster assistance : District of Columbia; Disaster assistance : Georgia; Disaster assistance : Idaho; Disaster assistance : Louisiana; Disaster assistance : Maryland; Disaster assistance : Michigan; Disaster assistance : Mississippi; Disaster assistance : Missouri; Disaster assistance : New Jersey; Disaster assistance : Oklahoma; Disaster assistance : Oregon; Disaster assistance : Texas; Disaster assistance : Virginia; Disaster assistance : Washington; Diseases : Zika virus in Western Hemisphere, containment and prevention efforts; District of Columbia : BLT Steak restaurant; District of Columbia : Democratic Party events; District of Columbia : Disaster assistance; District of Columbia : Jefferson, Washington, DC hotel; District of Columbia : Leckie Elementary School; District of Columbia : Oyamel Cocina Mexicana restaurant; Education : Science and math programs; Education, Department of : Secretary; ESPN; Europe : Financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Europe : Middle Eastern and North African refugees, humanitarian situation; Europe : Security and Co-operation in Europe, Organization for; Europe : Middle Eastern and North African refugees, humanitarian situation; Export-Import Bank, U.S; Facebook; Florida : President's visit; Florida : Saft America manufacturing facility in Jacksonville; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors, credentialing ceremony; France : 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris; France : President; Georgia : Disaster assistance; Germany : Chancellor; Germany : President Obama's visit; Germany : Terrorist attack Istanbul, Turkey, death of German tourists; Guatemala, President-elect; Hawaii : President's visits; Health and Human Services, Department of : National Institutes of Health; Health and Human Services, Department of : Secretary; Health and Human Services, Department of: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Health and medical care : Insurance coverage and access to providers; Health and medical care : Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Health and medical care : Research and development; Holidays and special observances : Black History Month; Holidays and special observances : Martin Luther King, Jr., Day; Holidays and special observances : Women's History Month; Holocaust Memorial Council, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Public Affairs, 