Administration of Barack Obama, 2016 Nominations Submitted to the Senate March 18, 2016 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers. Submitted January 11 Raymond G. Farmer, of South Carolina, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of 1 year (new position). Kelly Keiderling-Franz, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. Thomas McLeary, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of 2 years (new position). John Mark McWatters, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for a term expiring January 20, 2019, vice Sean Robert Mulvaney, term expired. Nelson Reyneri, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2018, vice Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, term expired. Michael J. Rothman, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of 2 years (new position). Stephen Michael Schwartz, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Somalia. Heather Ann Steinmiller, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of 2 years (new position). Todd A. Weiler, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jessica Lynn Wright, resigned. Withdrawn January 11 Phillip H. Cullom, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Sharon E. Burke, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on November 19, 2015. Patricia M. Loui-Schmicker, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. a term expiring January 20, 2019 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on March 16, 2015. Submitted January 12 Winfield D. Ong, of Indiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Indiana, vice Sarah Evans Barker, retired. Donald Karl Schott, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, vice Terence T. Evans, deceased. Myra C. Selby, of Indiana, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, vice John Daniel Tinder, retired. Submitted January 28 Terrence J. Campbell, of Kansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Kansas, vice Kathryn H. Vratil, retired. Jennifer Klemetsrud Puhl, of North Dakota, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice Kermit Edward Bye, retired. Submitted February 1 R. David Harden, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Nancy E. Lindborg. Withdrawn February 1 John Morton, of Massachusetts, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Mimi E. Alemayehou, which was sent to the Senate on June 16, 2015. Submitted February 4 Patrick A. Burke, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Columbia for the term of 4 years, vice Edwin Donovan Sloane, retired. Stephanie A. Finley, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, vice Richard T. Haik, Sr., retired. Claude J. Kelly III, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Ivan L. R. Lemelle, retired. Submitted February 11 Abdul K. Kallon, of Alabama, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Joel F. Dubina, retired. John B. King, of New York, to be Secretary of Education, vice Arne Duncan. Submitted February 22 Christine Ann Elder, of Kentucky, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Liberia. Elizabeth Holzhall Richard, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lebanese Republic. Submitted February 24 Carla D. Hayden, of Maryland, to be Librarian of Congress for a term of 10 years, vice James H. Billington. Submitted February 25 Donald W. Beatty, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Cameron M. Currie, retired. Donald C. Coggins, Jr., of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Joseph F. Anderson, Jr., retired. Lucy Haeran Koh, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Harry Pregerson, retired. Submitted March 3 Christopher James Brummer, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 19, 2016, vice Mark P. Wetjen, resigned. Christopher James Brummer, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring June 19, 2021 (reappointment). Susan Louise Castaneda, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers for a term of 1 year (new position). Roberto R. Herencia, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2018 (reappointment). Brian D. Quintenz, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2020, vice Scott O'Malia, resigned. Withdrawn March 3 Cassandra Q. Butts, of the District of Columbia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was sent to the Senate on September 10, 2015. Barbara Lee, of California, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was sent to the Senate on September 10, 2015. Therese W. McMillan, of California, to be Federal Transit Administrator, vice Peter M. Rogoff, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2015. Christopher H. Smith, of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was sent to the Senate on September 10, 2015. Submitted March 15 Walter David Counts III, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Texas, vice Robert A. Junell, retired. E. Scott Frost, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, vice Sam R. Cummings, retired. Rebecca Ross Haywood, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Marjorie O. Rendell, retired. James Wesley Hendrix, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, vice Jorge A. Solis, retiring. Irma Carrillo Ramirez, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, vice Terry R. Means, retired. Danny C. Reeves, of Kentucky, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2021, vice Dabney Langhorne Friedrich, term expired. Karen Gren Scholer, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, vice Richard A. Schell, retired. Kathleen Marie Sweet, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of New York, vice William M. Skretny, retired. Submitted March 16 Merrick B. Garland, of Maryland, to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, vice Antonin Scalia, deceased. Submitted March 17 Lisabeth Tabor Hughes, of Kentucky, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Boyce F. Martin, Jr., retired. Heidi Neel Biggs, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2017, vice Eric J. Tanenblatt, term expired. Almo J. Carter, of the District of Columbia, to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission for a term of 6 years, vice Patricia Cushwa, term expired. James Xavier Dempsey, of California, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2022 (reappointment). Larry T. Glenn, of the Virgin Islands, to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission for a term of 6 years, vice Isaac Fulwood, Jr., retired. Anne Hall, of Maine, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lithuania. Westley Watende Omari Moore, of Maryland, to be member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2016, vice Stan Z. Soloway, term expired. Westley Watende Omari Moore, of Maryland, to be member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2021 (reappointment). Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2021, vice Louis J. Giuliano, term expired. Douglas Barry Wilson, of Delaware, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2017, vice Elizabeth F. Bagley, term expired. Withdrawn March 17 Brad R. Carson, of Oklahoma, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Jessica Garfola Wright, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 8, 2015. Names: Beatty, Donald W.; Biggs, Heidi, Neel; Brummer, Christopher J.; Burke, Patrick A.; Butts, Cassandra Q.; Campbell, Terrence J.; Carson, Brad R.; Carter, Almo J.; Castaneda, Susan L.; Coggins, Donald C., Jr.; Counts, Walter D., III; Cullom, Phillip H.; Dempsey, James X.; Elder, Christine A.; Farmer, Raymond G.; Finley, Stephanie A.; Frost, E. Scott; Garland, Merrick B.; Glenn, Larry T.; Hall, Anne; Harden, R. David; Hayden, Carla D.; Haywood, Rebecca Ross; Hendrix, James W.; Herencia, Roberto R.; Hughes, Lisabeth Tabor; Kallon, Abdul K.; Keiderling-Franz, Kelly; Kelly, Claude J., III; King, John B.; Koh, Lucy Haeran; Lee, Barbara J.; Loui-Schmicker, Patricia M.; McLeary, Thomas; McMillan, Therese W.; McWatters, J. Mark; Moore, Westley W.O.; Morton, John E.; Ong, Winfield D.; Puhl, Jennifer Klemetsrud; Quintenz, Brian D.; Ramirez, Irma Carrillo; Reeves, Danny C.; Reyneri, Nelson; Richard, Elizabeth Holzhall; Rosen, Jeffrey A.; Rothman, Michael J.; Scholer, Karen Gren; Schott, Donald K.; Schwartz, Stephen M.; Selby, Myra C.; Smith, Chrisopher H.; Steinmiller, Heather A.; Sweet, Kathleen M.; Weiler, Todd A.; Wilson, Douglas B. 