Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 9 (Monday, March 6, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 9 (Monday, March 6, 2000)]
[Pages 421-422]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Major Illicit Drug Producing and Drug Transit Countries

February 29, 2000

Presidential Determination No. 2000-16

Memorandum for the Secretary of State

Subject: Presidential Determination on Major Illicit Drug Producing and 
Drug Transit Countries

    By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 490(b)(1)(A) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (the ``Act''), I hereby 
determine and certify that the following major illicit drug producing 
and/or major illicit drug transit countries (and certain jurisdictions) 
have cooperated fully with the United States, or have taken adequate 
steps on their own, to achieve full compliance with the goals and 
objectives of the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic 
in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances:
    The Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Colombia, Dominican Republic, 
      Ecuador, Guatemala, Hong Kong, India, Jamaica, Laos, Mexico, 
      Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Taiwan, Thailand, Venezuela, and 
      Vietnam.
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 490(b)(1)(B) of 
the Act, I hereby determine that it is in the vital national interests 
of the United States to certify the following major illicit drug 
producing and/or major illicit drug transit countries:
    Cambodia, Haiti, Nigeria, and Paraguay.
    I have determined that the following major illicit drug producing 
and/or major illicit drug transit countries do not meet the standards 
set forth in section 490(b) for certification:
    Afghanistan, Burma.
    In making these determinations, I have considered the factors set 
forth in section 490 of the Act, based on the information contained in 
the International Narcotics Control Strategy Report of 2000. Analysis of 
the relevant U.S. vital national interests, as required under section 
490(b)(3) of the Act in the case of the countries certified on this 
basis, is attached. Given that the performance of all of these 
countries/jurisdictions has differed, I

[[Page 422]]

have also attached an explanatory statement for each of the other 
countries/jurisdictions subject to this determination.
    You are hereby authorized and directed to publish this determination 
in the Federal Register.
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on March 1.