Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 6 (Monday, February 14, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 6 (Monday, February 14, 2000)]
[Page 233]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Egypt-United States Mutual Legal 
Assistance in Criminal Matters Treaty With Documentation

February 2, 2000

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Treaty Between the Government of 
the United States of America and the Government of the Arab Republic of 
Egypt on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed at Cairo on 
May 3, 1998. I transmit also a related exchange of diplomatic notes for 
the information of the Senate. The report of the Department of State 
with respect to the Treaty is enclosed.
    The Treaty is one of a series of modern mutual legal assistance 
treaties being negotiated by the United States in order to counter 
criminal activities more effectively. The Treaty should be an effective 
tool to assist in the prosecution of a wide variety of crimes, including 
terrorism and drug-trafficking offenses. The Treaty is self-executing.
    The Treaty provides for a broad range of cooperation in criminal 
matters. Mutual assistance available under the Treaty includes taking 
the testimony or statements of persons; providing documents, records and 
items of evidence; locating or identifying persons or items; serving 
documents; transferring persons in custody for testimony or other 
purposes; executing requests for searches and seizures; assisting in 
proceedings related to immobilization and forfeiture of assets, 
restitution, and collection of fines; and any other form of assistance 
not prohibited by the laws of the Requested State.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to the Treaty and give its advice and consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
February 2, 2000.

Note: This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.