Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 11 (Monday, March 20, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 11 (Monday, March 20, 2000)]
[Pages 537-538]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization

March 13, 2000

    On March 12, 1999, in Independence, Missouri, the Foreign Ministers 
of Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic joined the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization. One year ago, America became safer, NATO became 
stronger, and Europe more stable and united.
    Today we take the opportunity to reaffirm that the first new members 
of NATO shall

[[Page 538]]

 not be the last. From the Baltic Sea to the Balkans, in the heart of 
Europe, and wherever NATO's partners are found, there are many countries 
that share our democratic values and our determination to defend them. 
As they become able to meet the responsibilities of NATO membership and 
to contribute to the security of the transatlantic area, we will support 
their aspirations to become our Allies.

    NATO is erasing arbitrary lines of division across Europe. That is 
essential if we are to meet our goal, shared by our administration and a 
broad bipartisan coalition, of a Europe undivided, democratic, and at 
peace for the first time in history. We will also continue to deepen our 
partnership with Russia and Ukraine, who play essential roles in the new 
Europe.

    At the NATO Summit in Washington in April 1999, the Allies laid out 
a roadmap to membership. We are helping aspiring allies intensify their 
participation in the Partnership For Peace, encouraging them to follow 
Membership Action Plans to achieve greater inter-operability with NATO, 
and engaging with them in a full set of consultations and cooperative 
measures. In these ways, aspiring countries are demonstrating their 
commitment to closer ties with NATO and preparing for possible 
membership in the Alliance. They are also embracing economic and 
political reforms as well as defense policies that strengthen their 
democracies and contribute to peace and security in Europe. We urge them 
to continue pursuing their Membership Action Plans, the surest path to 
joining NATO, with even greater dedication in the months ahead.

    On this occasion, we thank our Allies, new and old, for working with 
us to make sure NATO does in the next half century what it has done in 
the last: unite our strength to deter war and defend our common 
interests. NATO's door is open to those who will help us do that in the 
future.