Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 46 (Monday, November 20, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 46 (Monday, November 20, 2000)]
[Pages 2891-2892]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing Legislation To Establish National Birmingham Pledge 
Week

November 17, 2000

    Recently I signed into law House Joint Resolution 102, designating 
National Birmingham Pledge Week. This resolution recognizes that the 
Birmingham Pledge is making a significant contribution in fostering 
racial harmony and reconciliation in the United States and around the 
world. By signing the pledge, signatories state their belief in the 
worth of every individual, that every person is entitled to dignity and 
respect regardless or race or color, and that every act of racial 
prejudice is harmful to all. Those who sign pledge themselves to 
actively discourage racial prejudice in themselves and others. They 
recognize that in honoring this pledge, they are making the world a 
better place.
    It is entirely fitting that this pledge began in the city of 
Birmingham, a place of some of our most painful racial strife. We 
remember in particular the September 15, 1963, bombing of the Sixteenth 
Street Baptist Church and the death of four children there. We know that 
the conflicts of the past are not fully resolved today and that we have 
new challenges before us. The United States is now more diverse than 
ever in terms of race, ethnic groups, and religion. At the same time, 
our world is witness to a resurgence of society's oldest demon, the 
inability to love our neighbors as ourselves.
    In my lifetime, our Nation has never had the chance we now have to 
build the future of our dreams for our children. To do it, we

[[Page 2892]]

will have to embrace our common humanity with humility and gratitude.
    Hillary and I were proud to sign the Birmingham Pledge in 1998. We 
applaud this effort to recognize its importance nationally. We urge all 
Americans to use National Birmingham Pledge Week as a powerful tool for 
helping to build the future of our dreams for all our children, a dream 
of one America.

  Note:  H.J. Res. 102, approved November 9, was assigned Public Law No. 
106-483.