Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 5 (Monday, February 7, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 5 (Monday, February 7, 2000)]
[Pages 198-199]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on a Resolution Regarding Use of Range Facilities
on Vieques Island, Puerto Rico

January 31, 2000

Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense; Director, Office of Management 
and Budget

Subject: Resolution Regarding Use of Range Facilities on Vieques, Puerto 
Rico (Referendum)

    By virtue of the authority vested in me and in order to further the 
interests of national security and to address the legitimate interests 
and concerns of the residents of Vieques and the people of Puerto Rico, 
I hereby direct the following:
    1. The future of Navy training on Vieques will be determined by a 
referendum of the registered voters of Vieques, using Puerto Rico 
electoral laws and regulations as they exist as of the date of this 
directive. This referendum will occur on May 1, 2001, or 270 days prior 
to or following May 1, 2001, the exact date to be specified on the 
request of the Department of the Navy. (This specified date and the 
terms of the referendum must be requested at least 90 days in advance of 
the referendum.) It is understood that the full implementation of this 
directive is contingent upon the Government of Puerto Rico authorizing 
and supporting this referendum, and the cooperation of the Government of 
Puerto Rico as specified in paragraph 5(a).
    2. This referendum will present two alternatives. The first shall be 
that the Navy will cease all training not later than May 1, 2003. The 
second will permit continued training, to include live fire training, on 
terms proposed by the Navy. Live fire training is critical to enhance 
combat readiness for all our military personnel and must occur in some 
location.
    3. In the event the referendum selects the option of termination of 
Navy activities, then
    (a) Navy lands on the Eastern side of Vieques (including the Eastern 
Maneuver Area and the Live Impact Area) will be transferred within 1 
year of the referendum to the General Services Administration (GSA) for 
disposal under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, 
except for conservation zones, which will be transferred to the 
Department of the Interior for continued preservation.
    (b) The GSA will supervise restoration of the lands described in 
section 3(a) consistent with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) before it is further 
transferred under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, 
except that the Live Impact Area will be swept for ordnance and fenced 
to meet the same range standards used after the closure of the live 
impact area used by Naval Air Station, South Weymouth, Massachusetts. 
The Government of Puerto Rico may request transfer of the restored lands 
in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act.
    (c) Under no conditions will the land described in this section be 
returned to the Department of Defense or used for military training.
    4. In the event the referendum selects the option of continued 
training submitted by the Navy, the Office of Management and Budget will 
request congressional funding to further provide for the enhancement of 
infrastructure and housing on the Western portions of Vieques in the 
amount of $50 million.
    5. Between the date of this directive and the referendum, the 
following will occur:

[[Page 199]]

    (a) The Department of Defense and the Government of Puerto Rico will 
work in cooperation with relevant Federal authorities to ensure the 
integrity and accessibility of the range is uninterrupted and 
trespassing and other intrusions on the range cease entirely by 
providing complementary support among Federal and Puerto Rican 
jurisdictions.
    (b) Navy training on Vieques will recommence, but it shall not 
exceed 90 days per calendar year and will be limited to non-
explosive ordnance, which may include spotting devices.
    (c) The Navy will ensure procedures are in place that will enhance 
safety and will position ships to reduce noise in civilian areas 
whenever possible.
    (d) Before any major training occurs on the range, the Government of 
Puerto Rico, through its Secretary of State, will be given 15 days 
notification under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding of 1983.
    (e) The Office of Management and Budget will initiate a funding 
request to the Congress:
(1)         to fund a Public Health Service study in coordination with 
            appropriate agencies to review health concerns raised by the 
            residents of Vieques.
(2)         to complete the conveyance of 110 acres of Navy property to 
            extend the runway at the Vieques Municipal Airport to 
            accommodate larger passenger aircraft; and for the Navy to 
            provide training and supplemental equipment to bolster the 
            airport fire, safety, and resource capability.
(3)         to maintain the ecosystem and conservation zones and 
            implement the sea turtle, sea mammal, and Brown Pelican 
            management plans as specified in the Memorandum of 
            Understanding of 1983.
    (f) Within 30 days of this directive, the Navy will submit 
legislation to the Congress to transfer land on the Western side of 
Vieques surrounding the Naval Ammunition Facility (except 100 acres of 
land on which the ROTHR and Mount Pirata telecommunications sites are 
located). The legislation submitted will provide for land transfer not 
later than December 31, 2000. This transfer will be to the Government of 
Puerto Rico for the benefit of the municipality of Vieques as determined 
by the Planning Board of the Government of Puerto Rico. This land shall 
be restored consistent with CERCLA standards prior to transfer.
    6. The Director of OMB shall publish this directive in the Federal 
Register.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:22 a.m., February 3, 
2000]

Note: This memorandum was published in the Federal Register on February 
4.