Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 6 (Monday, February 14, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 6 (Monday, February 14, 2000)]
[Pages 273-274]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Russia-United States Treaty on 
Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters With Documentation

February 10, 2000

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Treaty Between the United States 
of America and the Russian Federation on Mutual Legal Assistance in 
Criminal Matters, signed at Moscow on June 17, 1999. I transmit also, 
for the information of the Senate, a related exchange of notes and the 
report of the Department of State with respect to the Treaty.
    The Treaty is one of a series of modern mutual legal assistance 
treaties being negotiated by the United States in order to counter 
criminal activities more effectively. The Treaty should be an effective 
tool to assist in the prosecution of a wide variety of crimes, including 
terrorism, money laundering, organized crime and drug-trafficking 
offenses. The Treaty is self-executing.

[[Page 274]]

    The Treaty provides for a broad range of cooperation in criminal 
matters. Mutual assistance available under the Treaty includes obtaining 
the testimony or statements of persons; providing documents, records and 
other items; serving documents; locating or identifying persons and 
items; executing requests for searches and seizures; transferring 
persons in custody for testimony or other purposes; locating and 
immobilizing assets for purposes of forfeiture, restitution, or 
collection of fines; and any other form of legal assistance not 
prohibited by the laws of the Requested Party.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to the Treaty and give its advice and consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
February 10, 2000.