Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 24 (Monday, June 19, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 24 (Monday, June 19, 2000)]
[Pages 1337-1338]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Arrival in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and an Exchange With 
Reporters

June 10, 2000

 Death of President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria

    As all of you know, I received word not very long ago of President 
Asad's death in Syria today. I was very saddened by it, and I want to 
offer my condolences to his son, his family, and to the people of Syria.
    You know, over the last 7 years, I had the occasion to meet with 
President Asad many times, and I believe I got to know him well.

[[Page 1338]]

And while we had our disagreements, I always respected him because I 
felt that he was open and straightforward with me and because I felt he 
meant it when he said he had made a strategic choice for peace. I regret 
that that peace was not achieved in his lifetime, and I hope that it can 
still be achieved, in no small measure because of the commitment he 
made.
    I think today, rather than speculating about the future, it would be 
best for all of us just to send our condolences and our best thoughts to 
his family and to the people of Syria.
    Thank you.

Middle East Peace Process

    Q.  Mr. President, since he was such a integral link in the process, 
is this going to delay the future of the process? How is it going to 
affect the expediency of the process that you've been trying to jump-
start recently?
    The President.  Peter, [Peter Maer, CBS News] I think it's premature 
to say. There will be a period of mourning in Syria. There will be a 
period of sorting out, and the Syrian people will make some decisions, 
and then we'll see what happens. But you know, we've been at this now 
for years because of the decision that he made to go back to 
negotiations and try to move away from conflict, and it's certainly a 
path I hope the country will stay on.

 Note:  The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. at the Minneapolis-St. Paul 
International Airport. In his remarks, he referred to President's al-
Asad's son, Bashur Asad. A portion of these remarks could not be 
verified because the tape was incomplete.