Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 46 (Monday, November 20, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 46 (Monday, November 20, 2000)]
[Pages 2840-2841]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Preservation of Japanese-American Internment Sites

November 9, 2000

Memorandum for the Secretary of the Interior

Subject: Preservation of Japanese American Internment Sites

    The internment of Japanese Americans was a tragic episode in 
American history. The recent publication of the National Park Service 
report on the condition of the former internment camp sites, coupled 
with our Fiscal Year 2001 budget initiative, will help focus attention 
and resources on preserving the historical values of these sites.
    The National Park Service report, entitled ``Confinement and 
Ethnicity: an Overview of World War II Japanese American Relocation 
Sites,'' describes the current condition of the internment camps and 
other relocation sites. To follow up on this report, I direct you to 
develop recommendations to preserve the existing Japanese American 
internment sites and to provide more opportunities for the public to 
learn about the internment. These recommendations should be developed 
within the next 60 days in consultation with other Federal agencies, as 
appropriate.
    I also direct you to consult with Members of Congress, States, 
tribes, local officials, and other interested parties as you develop 
these recommendations. You should also consider expanding partnerships 
with private organizations and landowners and explore the creation of an 
interagency team to coordinate the work of Federal agencies. Your 
recommendations should include proposals for administrative and 
legislative action to help preserve these sites, within existing budget 
resources.
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.

[[Page 2841]]