Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 23 (Monday, June 12, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 23 (Monday, June 12, 2000)]
[Page 1315]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to the Senate Democratic Leader on the Patients' Bill of Rights

June 8, 2000

Dear Mr. Leader:

    I am writing to express my strong support for your effort to give 
the Senate its first opportunity to vote for the bipartisan Norwood-
Dingell Patients' Bill of Rights. It is long past time that the Congress 
acted to deliver real patient protections for all Americans in all 
health plans.
    It is my understanding that the members of the Senate/House 
Conference who support a strong, enforceable, Patients' Bill of Rights 
have reluctantly concluded that the likelihood of an acceptable bill 
emerging from the conference is remote. After 8 months of inaction since 
the House passed the Norwood-Dingell Bipartisan Consensus Managed Care 
Improvement Act, and with very few scheduled legislative days remaining, 
it is time for the Congress to act to pass this legislation and give 
Americans the patient protections they deserve.
    Congress has failed to pass this measure for years, and this delay 
has real consequences. According to a recent study, each day without a 
strong Patients' Bill of Rights results in harm to thousands of patients 
because insurance companies refused a patient a diagnostic test, a 
necessary procedure, or a referral to a specialist.
    It is my hope that the Senate will approve this legislation today 
and take the next important step toward the enactment of a strong, 
enforceable Patients' Bill of Rights. I urge the Senate to put the 
interests of patients before those of the special interests and 
replicate last fall's bipartisan achievement by the House of 
Representatives.
     Sincerely,
                                            William J. Clinton

  Note:  An original was not available for verification of the content 
of this letter.