Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 46 (Monday, November 20, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 46 (Monday, November 20, 2000)]
[Pages 2865-2866]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Signing the Reauthorization of the Export Administration 
Act of 1979

November 13, 2000

    Today I have signed into law H.R. 5239, which reauthorizes the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 (EAA) until August 20, 2001.
    Reauthorization and revision of the EAA is long overdue. The EAA is 
a Cold War statute and its authorities lapsed on August 20, 1994. Since 
the end of the Cold War, there has been a strong need for a modern 
export control law that will provide U.S. businesses an updated legal 
framework in which to operate. This revised Act must recognize the 
current realities of a fast-paced highly competitive global market and 
at the same time help ensure our national security by controlling the 
export of sensitive dual-use items that

[[Page 2866]]

have military and nonmilitary applications. My Administration proposed 
such a revision back in 1994. Despite several efforts, the Congress has 
not yet been able to pass a new revised Act.
    In reauthorizing the EAA on a short-term basis, the Congress has 
taken a small but significant step. Reauthorizing the EAA will overcome 
the legal challenges now being made to the Department of Commerce's 
continued operation of its export control system under the International 
Emergency Economic Powers Act after the lapse of the EAA. In particular, 
the reauthorization confirms the Department's ability to keep export 
licensing information obtained during the lapse of the EAA from public 
disclosure, which is a critical part of the Department's export control 
system and protects sensitive business information and commercial 
interests of U.S. exporters. The Congress' actions have reaffirmed the 
view of the executive branch in this matter--that confidential treatment 
of export licensing information is continuous regardless of whether the 
EAA is in a lapse period. The reauthorization of the EAA also reaffirms 
that the Congress must abide by statutory limitations on public 
disclosure of such information.
    While a comprehensive revision of the Export Administration Act is 
necessary, this reauthorization of the EAA is a needed short-term step.
                                            William J. Clinton
 The White House,
 November 13, 2000.

Note: At the time of publication, H.R. 5239, approved November 13, had 
not been received by the Office of the Federal Register in time for 
assignment of a public law number.