Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 39 (Monday, October 2, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 39 (Monday, October 2, 2000)]
[Pages 2173-2174]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7344--Gold Star Mother's Day, 2000

 September 22, 2000

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    America's Armed Forces have stood watch over our freedom for more 
than two centuries. They have held posts on lonely ridges, spent long 
days and nights at sea, and faced danger in the skies. They have 
sacrificed their youth, their time, and even their lives to sustain the 
foundation on which our country was built and to protect the democratic 
values that keep our country strong and free.
    The mothers of these courageous men and women have also bravely 
stood watch--in homes once filled with the laughter of children--and 
waited for word from their loved ones. When the guns of battle fell 
silent, many mothers' homes were once again filled with the boisterous 
commotion of their children returning from distant lands. But the homes 
of Gold Star Mothers remained silent. Their children had made the 
ultimate sacrifice for our Nation, and Gold Star Mothers were left with 
the profound sorrow of their heartbreaking loss.
    But America's Gold Star Mothers rose above their personal tragedy, 
and today they continue to stand watch over our Nation. Reaching out to 
improve the lives of others and to ensure that the noble contributions 
of their sons and daughters are not forgotten, they are powerful 
examples of service and sacrifice for us all. With dignity, courage, and 
compassion, they have worked to promote patriotism, foster peace and 
goodwill, and extend a helping hand to veterans and those in need. Their 
generosity of spirit has touched the lives of countless Americans and 
made certain that the selflessness their children demonstrated in 
service to our country remains a prominent part of our national 
character.
    For their steadfast devotion to duty and their unwavering commitment 
to carrying on the proud legacy of their children, we honor these Gold 
Star Mothers each year. The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of 
June

[[Page 2174]]

23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895), has designated the last Sunday in September as 
``Gold Star Mother's Day'' and has authorized and requested the 
President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
     Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, September 24, 2000, as 
Gold Star Mother's Day. I call upon all government officials to display 
the United States flag over government buildings on this solemn day. I 
also encourage the American people to display the flag and to hold 
appropriate meetings in their homes, places of worship, or other 
suitable places as a public expression of the sympathy and respect that 
our Nation holds for our Gold Star Mothers.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second 
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
fifth.
                                            William J. Clinton

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:46 a.m., September 
25, 2000]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
September 26. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.