Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 31 (Monday, August 7, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 31 (Monday, August 7, 2000)]
[Page 1721]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Mexico-United States Treaty on 
the Delimitation of the Continental Shelf in the Western Gulf of Mexico 
With Documentation

July 27, 2000

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the Treaty Between the Government of 
the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican 
States on the Delimitation of the Continental Shelf in the Western Gulf 
of Mexico beyond 200 nautical miles. The Treaty was signed at Washington 
on June 9, 2000. The report of the Department of State is also enclosed 
for the information of the Senate.
    The purpose of the Treaty is to establish a continental shelf 
boundary in the western Gulf of Mexico beyond the outer limits of the 
two countries' exclusive economic zones where those limits do not 
overlap. The approximately 135-nautical-mile continental shelf boundary 
runs in a general east-west direction. The boundary defines the limit 
within which the United States and Mexico may exercise continental shelf 
jurisdiction, particularly oil and gas exploration and exploitation.
    The Treaty also establishes procedures for addressing the 
possibility of oil and gas reservoirs that extend across the continental 
shelf boundary.
    I believe this Treaty to be fully in the interest of the United 
States. Ratification of the Treaty will facilitate the United States 
proceeding with leasing an area of continental shelf with oil and gas 
potential that has interested the U.S. oil and gas industry for several 
years.
    The Treaty also reflects the tradition of cooperation and close ties 
with Mexico. The location of the boundary has not been in dispute.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to this Treaty and give its advice and consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
 The White House,
 July 27, 2000.

 Note: This message was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
July 28. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.