Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 5 (Monday, February 7, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 5 (Monday, February 7, 2000)]
[Pages 197-198]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on a Resolution Regarding Use of Range Facilities
on Vieques Island, Puerto Rico

January 31, 2000

Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense; Director, Office of Management 
and Budget

Subject: Resolution Regarding Use of Range Facilities on Vieques, Puerto 
Rico (Community Assistance)

    By separate directive I have addressed the resumption of Navy and 
Marine Corps training on the island of Vieques.
    1. Provided that training opportunity has resumed and is 
continuously available on Vieques, then within 90 days of this 
directive, I direct the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to request 
authority and funding (which with funding for projects described in 
paragraph 5(e) of the previously referenced directive will total $40 
million) from the Congress for the following projects:
      (a) To support the construction of a new commercial ferry pier and 
terminal by the Army Corps of Engineers.
      (b) To establish an artificial reef construction and fish 
aggregation program to create substantial new commercial fishing areas 
for Vieques fishermen. Until such time as these new fishing grounds are 
operational, this legislation will authorize direct payments of an 
amount (to be determined by the National Marine Fisheries Services) to 
be paid to registered Vieques commercial fisherman for each day they are 
unable to use existing waters because the Navy is training.
      (c) To support expanding or improving the major cross-island 
roadways and bridges on Vieques.

[[Page 198]]

      (d) To establish an apprenticeship/training program for young 
people of Vieques to facilitate participation in small-scale civic 
construction projects.
      (e) To establish a program with the Government of Puerto Rico to 
preserve the Puerto Mosquito Vieques bioluminescent bay and to commit 
Federal resources to its preservation.
      (f) To establish a professional economic development office for 
Vieques for the purpose of promoting Vieques and attracting jobs to the 
island.
    2. The Director of OMB shall publish this directive in the Federal 
Register.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:22 a.m., February 3, 
2000]

Note: This memorandum was published in the Federal Register on February 
4.