Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 19 (Monday, May 15, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 19 (Monday, May 15, 2000)]
[Pages 1046-1047]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Videotape Remarks to the White House News Photographers' Association 
Dinner

 May 10, 2000

    Good evening. I'm sorry I can't be with you tonight, but I'm glad to 
join you in this way, as the members of the White House News 
Photographers' Association celebrate your annual dinner. I extend my 
congratulations to this evening's award winners.
    For a long time now, I've been an admirer of your work, and in more 
recent years, I've even been a subject of it. From here on the other 
side of the lens, I want to tell you how much I appreciate your skill 
and your dedication. Each and every day, you bring the world of 
Washington into sharper focus for the world outside Washington. Taking 
on some of the toughest assignments in journalism, you turn them into 
images that endure, images that help define our times and the way that 
we will remember them far into the future.

[[Page 1047]]

    I want to mention one family that's been making this kind of 
contribution for half a century now, the McNamees. Wally McNamee was 
first named Photographer of the Year back when President Eisenhower was 
in the White House. Along the way, he's been honored more than any 
member in the history of the association. Wally, congratulations on 
tonight's award. It really has been a ``lifetime of achievement.''
    Of course, one of the greatest honors any parent could ever receive 
is when a child chooses to follow in his footsteps. Tonight Wally's son, 
Win, carries on a McNamee family tradition by taking first place in my 
favorite category of photography, Presidential.
    I want to extend my congratulations to all the photographers and 
cameramen who are being honored tonight, and make special mention of 
another very special award winner, Sharon Farmer. My first day on the 
job was her first day, and I've been honored to have her by my side, 
literally, ever since. I am lucky to have Sharon as a friend, and every 
bit as lucky to have her as my Director of White House Photography--the 
first woman and the first African-American ever to hold that post. 
Sharon Farmer is making history even as she records it.
    Sharon, I thank you. We all know that with or without a camera, 
you're a straight shooter. I can't tell you how much I appreciate that. 
And I'm proud to join your peers tonight in bestowing the recognition 
you never seek but richly deserve.
    Again, congratulations to all tonight's winners and to the 
association for your fine work and many achievements.
    Thank you, and good night.

 Note:  These remarks were videotaped at approximately 6 p.m. in the 
Roosevelt Room at the White House on April 25 for broadcast at the 
dinner on May 6. The transcript was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 10. A tape was not available for verification of the 
content of these remarks.