Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40 Issue 6 (Monday, February 9, 2004)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40, Number 6 (Monday, February 9, 2004)]
[Pages 202-203]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Announcing the Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of 
the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction

February 6, 2004

    Good afternoon. Today, by Executive order, I am creating an 
independent commission, chaired by Governor and former Senator Chuck 
Robb, Judge Laurence Silberman, to look at American intelligence 
capabilities, especially our intelligence about weapons of mass 
destruction.
    Last week, our former chief weapons inspector, David Kay, reported 
that Saddam Hussein's regime had weapons programs and activities in 
violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions and was a 
gathering threat to the world. Dr. Kay also stated that some prewar 
intelligence assessments by America and other nations about Iraq's 
weapons stockpiles have not been confirmed. We are determined to figure 
out why. We're also determined to make sure that American intelligence 
is as accurate as possible for every challenge in the future.
    The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses the most 
serious of dangers to the peace of the world. Chemical, biological, and 
nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists or terror regimes could bring 
catastrophic harm to America and to our friends. It is the policy of the 
United States Government to oppose that threat by any means necessary. 
Our efforts against proliferation begin with and depend upon accurate 
and thorough intelligence.
    The men and women of our intelligence community and intelligence 
officers who work for our friends and allies around the world are 
dedicated professionals engaged in difficult and complex work. America's 
enemies are secretive. They are ruthless, and they are resourceful. And 
in tracking and disrupting their activities, our Nation must bring to 
bear every tool and advantage at our command.
    In Iraq, America and our coalition enforced the clearly stated 
demands of the world, that a violent regime prove its own disarmament. 
In the aftermath of September the 11th, 2001, I will not take risks with 
the lives and security of the American people by assuming the good will 
of dictators.
    And now, as we move forward in our efforts to prevent the spread of 
weapons of mass destruction, we must stay ahead of constantly changing 
intelligence challenges. The stakes for our country could not be higher, 
and our standard of intelligence gathering and analysis must be equal to 
that of the challenge.
    The commission I have appointed today will examine intelligence on 
weapons of mass destruction and related 21st century threats

[[Page 203]]

and issue specific recommendations to ensure our capabilities are 
strong. The commission will compare what the Iraq Survey Group learns 
with the information we had prior to our Operation Iraqi Freedom. It 
will review our intelligence on weapons programs in countries such as 
North Korea and Iran. It will examine our intelligence on the threats 
posed by Libya and Afghanistan before recent changes in those countries. 
Members of the commission will issue their report by March 31st, 2005.
    I've ordered all departments and agencies, including our 
intelligence agencies, to assist the commission's work. The commission 
will have full access to the findings of the Iraq Survey Group.
    In naming this commission--these men as Cochairmen of the 
commission, I'm also naming today Senator John McCain; Lloyd Cutler, 
former White House Counsel to Presidents Carter and Clinton; Rick Levin, 
the president of Yale University; Admiral Bill Studeman, the former 
Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency; Judge Pat Wald, a 
former judge on the DC Court of Appeals. Those are seven members named. 
The commission calls for up to nine members. As we vet and find 
additional members to fill out the nine, we will let you know.
    Thank you for your attention.

Note: The President spoke at 1:32 p.m. in the James S. Brady Briefing 
Room at the White House. In his remarks, he referred to David Kay, 
former CIA Special Advisor for Strategy Regarding Iraqi Weapons of Mass 
Destruction Programs; and former President Saddam Hussein of Iraq.