Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40 Issue 11 (Monday, March 15, 2004)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40, Number 11 (Monday, March 15, 2004)]
[Pages 349-350]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7760--Irish-American Heritage Month, 2004

 March 5, 2004

By the President of the United States

of America

 A Proclamation

    Millions of Americans trace their ancestry to Ireland's shores. 
During Irish-American Heritage Month, we recognize these proud citizens 
and their important contributions to America.
    Irish Americans have helped settle the American frontier, build our 
cities, and defend our homeland. Through their service in government and 
the military, they have helped to uphold our democracy and advance 
liberty and peace around the world. Through their dedication to faith 
and family, they have strengthened our communities and enriched our 
Nation's character.
    The names of Irish Americans who have helped make America great are 
familiar. Davy Crockett and Sam Houston helped settle the West. As 
Archbishop, John Cardinal O'Connor served the people of New York with 
conviction and compassion. President John Kennedy led America with 
steadfast determination during a time of great challenge.
    These and millions of other Irish Americans have made America better 
and stronger.

[[Page 350]]

This month, we celebrate the enormous gifts Irish Americans have given 
this Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2004 as Irish-
American Heritage Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month 
by celebrating the contributions of Irish Americans to our Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand four, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., March 9, 
2004]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on March 6, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
March 10.