Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40 Issue 47 (Monday, November 22, 2004)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40, Number 47 (Monday, November 22, 2004)]
[Pages 2829-2830]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7846--America Recycles Day, 2004

 November 15, 2004

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Our Nation is dedicated to good stewardship of our natural 
resources. On America Recycles Day, we reaffirm our commitment to 
preserving our resources and recycling.
    Our country produces more than 200 million tons of municipal solid 
waste--approximately 4 pounds of waste per person per day. As more 
garbage is generated, the demands on our landfills, natural resources, 
and environment continue to grow. Recycling helps conserve energy and 
natural resources, provides raw materials for key domestic industries, 
reduces air and water pollution, cuts greenhouse gas emissions, and 
promotes the development of cleaner technologies. Recycling and 
composting diverts millions of tons of material away from landfills and 
incinerators. Through curbside collection and recyclable drop-off 
centers, communities across our Nation are demonstrating their 
commitment to protecting our environment and to

[[Page 2830]]

building a better future for our next generation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 15, 2004, as 
America Recycles Day. I call upon the people of the United States to 
observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day 
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand four, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
ninth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:09 a.m., November 17, 
2004]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 18.