Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40 Issue 20 (Monday, May 17, 2004)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40, Number 20 (Monday, May 17, 2004)]
[Pages 843-844]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7781--Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month, 2004

 May 7, 2004

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month, we honor the 
accomplishments of Asian/Pacific Americans and the many ways they have 
enriched our society and shaped the character of our Nation through 
their diverse languages, cultures, and religious beliefs.
    Today, Asian/Pacific Americans are leaders in public service, 
business, government, science, law, education, athletics, the arts, and 
many other areas. Their love of family, community, and hard work has 
helped to uphold our Nation for many generations. Asian/Pacific American 
entrepreneurs are helping to strengthen our economy and our communities 
through their hard work and ingenuity, and they inspire a new generation 
of American innovation through their example.
    Throughout our history, Asian/Pacific Americans have been patriots, 
answering the call to defend our Nation and to protect the blessings of 
liberty and democracy. Today, in the war on terror, Asian/Pacific 
Americans serve proudly as they carry on our Nation's noble tradition of 
advancing the cause of

[[Page 844]]

freedom around the world. We are grateful for the sacrifice of our men 
and women in uniform and those who love and support them as we fight to 
protect our homeland and make the world safe for democracy.
    Today, the more than 13 million Americans of Asian or Pacific Island 
heritage contribute to the vitality, success, and prosperity of our 
Nation. To honor the achievements and contributions of Asian/Pacific 
Americans, the Congress by Public Law 102-450 as amended, has designated 
the month of May each year as ``Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month.''
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim May 2004 as Asian/Pacific American Heritage 
Month. I call upon the people of the United States to reflect upon the 
history of Asian/Pacific Americans and their many contributions to our 
Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of 
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand four, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., May 11, 2004]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 12. 
This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate 
issue.