Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40 Issue 6 (Monday, February 9, 2004)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 40, Number 6 (Monday, February 9, 2004)]
[Pages 181-182]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7754--American Heart Month, 2004

February 2, 2004

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. It 
affects men and women of every age and race. During American Heart 
Month, we encourage all Americans to join the fight against heart 
disease and to learn more about how to prevent it.

[[Page 182]]

    More than 64 million Americans suffer from one or more forms of 
cardiovascular disease, including high blood pressure, coronary heart 
disease, congestive heart failure, stroke, and congenital heart defects. 
Many of the risk factors that can lead to heart disease, such as high 
blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, and diabetes, can be prevented 
or controlled. Research has shown that men and women who lead healthy 
lifestyles, including making healthy food choices, getting regular 
exercise, maintaining a healthy weight, and choosing not to smoke or 
drink excessively, can significantly decrease their risk of heart 
disease.
    Heart disease is responsible for the deaths of one in three women in 
the United States. To make women more aware of the danger of heart 
disease, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute of the National 
Institutes of Health has joined with the Department of Health and Human 
Services and other national organizations to launch a nationwide 
campaign called ``The Heart Truth.'' This important campaign encourages 
women to learn more about heart health, to lead healthier lives, and to 
talk with their doctors about their risk for developing heart disease.
    During American Heart Month, I urge all Americans to learn more 
about heart health and to reduce their risk factors for serious heart 
conditions. By making healthy choices, we can live longer and better 
lives.
    In recognition of the important ongoing fight against heart disease, 
the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved December 30, 1963, as amended 
(77 Stat. 843; 36 U.S.C. 101), has requested that the President issue an 
annual proclamation designating February as ``American Heart Month.''
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim February 2004 as American Heart Month. I 
invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
States, and the American people to join me in reaffirming our commitment 
to combating heart disease.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of 
February, in the year of our Lord two thousand four, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
eighth.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:02 a.m., February 3, 
2004]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
February 4.