Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Statement on House Passage of HOMESTAR Legislation May 6, 2010  The "Home Star Energy Retrofit Act" is a commonsense bill that will create jobs, save consumers money, and strengthen our economy. I commend the House on passing this bill, and I particularly want to thank Congressman Peter Welch of Vermont for all of his hard work on this issue. At a time when millions of Americans are looking for work and companies are ready to take on new customers, this legislation will help jump-start job growth and demand for new products created right here in America. This rebate program will not only put people back to work, it will lower costs for homeowners who choose to improve their home with products like energy-efficient windows, water heaters, and air conditioners. And it will also save consumers money on energy bills down the road. I'm convinced that the country that leads in clean energy is also going to be the country that leads in the global economy, and I want America to be that nation. I will not settle for anything less than first place when it comes to new energy technologies, and this bill will create the incentives to help us accomplish that goal. We have workers eager to do new installations and renovations and factories ready to produce new energy-efficient building supplies. Today's House vote is an important step forward, and I look forward to working with the Senate to improve this legislation so we can help more middle class homeowners make these investments without delay. NOTE: The statement referred to H.R. 5019. Categories: Statements by the President : HOMESTAR legislation, House of Representatives passage. Names: Welch, Peter. Subjects: Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Energy : Alternative and renewable sources and technologies; Energy : Alternative energy products and technologies, U.S. production; Energy : Energy-efficient homes and buildings; Energy : HOMESTAR program; Legislation, proposed : "Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010". DCPD Number: DCPD201000350. 