Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Statement on Oil Spill Response Efforts in the Gulf of Mexico May 29, 2010 Today I've spoken with National Incident Commander Admiral Thad Allen, as well as Energy Secretary Steven Chu, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, and senior White House advisers John Brennan and Carol Browner regarding the ongoing efforts to stop the BP oil spill. From the beginning, our concern has been that the surest way to stop the flow of oil—the drilling of relief wells—would take several months to complete. So engineers and experts have explored a variety of alternatives to stop the leak now. They had hoped that the top kill approach attempted this week would halt the flow of oil and gas currently escaping from the seafloor. But while we initially received optimistic reports about the procedure, it is now clear that it has not worked. Rear Admiral Mary Landry today directed BP to launch a new procedure whereby the riser pipe will be cut and a containment structure fitted over the leak.  This approach is not without risk and has never been attempted before at this depth. That is why it was not activated until other methods had been exhausted. It will be difficult and will take several days. It is also important to note that while we were hopeful that the top kill would succeed, we were also mindful that there was a significant chance it would not. And we will continue to pursue any and all responsible means of stopping this leak until the completion of the two relief wells currently being drilled.  As I said yesterday, every day that this leak continues is an assault on the people of the Gulf Coast region, their livelihoods, and the natural bounty that belongs to all of us. It is as enraging as it is heartbreaking, and we will not relent until this leak is contained, until the waters and shores are cleaned up, and until the people unjustly victimized by this manmade disaster are made whole. Categories: Statements by the President : Gulf of Mexico :: Deepwater Horizon oil spill response efforts. Names: Allen, Thad W.; Brennan, John O.; Browner, Carol M.; Chu, Steven; Jackson, Lisa P.; Landry, Mary E.; Salazar, Kenneth L. Subjects: Energy : British Petroleum; Energy, Department of : Secretary; Environmental Protection Agency : Administrator; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Economic effects and recovery efforts; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Environmental effects and cleanup efforts; Interior, Department of the : Secretary; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Energy and Climate Change; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism. DCPD Number: DCPD201000440. 