Administration of Barack Obama, 2010 Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives Transmitting Budget Amendments for Fiscal Year 2011 June 18, 2010 Dear Madam Speaker: I ask the Congress to consider the enclosed Fiscal Year (FY) 2011 Budget amendments for the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Homeland Security, Housing and Urban Development, Labor, State and Other International Programs, Transportation, and the Treasury, as well as the Small Business Administration, District of Columbia, Institute of Museum and Library Services, Northern Border Regional Commission, and Southeast Crescent Regional Commission. These amendments would not increase the proposed totals in my FY 2011 Budget. In addition, this transmittal contains FY 2011 amendments for the Legislative Branch. As a matter of comity between branches, these appropriations requests of the Legislative Branch are transmitted without change. Moreover, provided for your consideration is a FY 2011 Budget amendment for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). This request would fund an initiative to develop a plan to spur regional economic growth and job creation along the Florida Space Coast and other affected regions in furtherance of my Administration's bold new course for human space flight, which revitalizes NASA and transitions to new opportunities in the space industry and beyond. The details of these requests are set forth in the enclosed letter from the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA Categories: Communications to Congress : Budget amendments for fiscal year 2011, letter transmitting. Subjects: Budget, Federal : Amendments; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Aeronautics and Space Administration, National; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Agriculture, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Commerce, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Defense, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: District of Columbia; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Homeland Security, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Housing and Urban Development, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Labor, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Museum and Library Services, Institute of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Northern Border Regional Commission; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Small Business Administration; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Southeast Crescent Regional Commission; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: State, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Transportation, Department of; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Treasury, Department of the; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2011 budget. DCPD Number: DCPD201000515. 