Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Joint Statement by President Barack Obama and President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia on Strategic Stability June 24, 2010 The United States of America and the Russian Federation are committed to continuing the development of a new strategic relationship based on mutual trust, openness, predictability, and cooperation by following up on the successful negotiation of the Treaty on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, which is focused on the reduction of strategic offensive arms and provides a basis for consideration of further mutually beneficial measures. They have submitted the Treaty on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms to the Senate of the United States of America and the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, and plan to coordinate closely on their respective efforts to secure its prompt ratification and entry into force. In addition, the Arms Control and International Security Working Group of the U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission plans to discuss potential ways to promote strategic stability and a more transparent strategic relationship. The United States and the Russian Federation are also committed to working with all our partners this year to strengthen the conventional arms control regime in Europe, and modernize it for the 21st century. NOTE: An original was not available for verification of the content of this joint statement. Categories: Joint Statements : Russia, President Medvedev :: Strategic stability. Names: Medvedev, Dmitry A. Subjects: Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Strategic Offensive Arms, Treaty Between the U.S. and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of; Russia : Bilateral Presidential Commission, U.S.-Russia; Russia : President; Russia : Relations with U.S.; Russia : Strategic Offensive Arms, Treaty Between the U.S. and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of. DCPD Number: DCPD201000536. 