Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Checklist of White House Press Releases December 31, 2010 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. Released January 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released January 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Expands "Educate to Innovate" Campaign for Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Released January 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, and Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser John O. Brennan Text: Summary of the White House Review of the December 25, 2009 Attempted Terrorist Attack Released January 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Awards $2.3 Billion for New Clean-Tech Manufacturing Jobs Statement by the Press Secretary on the fifth anniversary of the Sudanese comprehensive peace agreement Fact sheet: $2.3 Billion in New Clean Energy Manufacturing Tax Credits Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in December Released January 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr.'s travel to the Middle East Announcement: President Obama Signs Executive Order Establishing Council of Governors Released January 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released January 13 Fact sheet: The Economic Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009: Second Quarterly Report (dated January 12; embargoed until January 13) Released January 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun L.S. Donovan Announces $2 Billion in Recovery Act Grants To Stabilize Neighborhoods, Rebuild Local Economies Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Proposes Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee To Recoup Every Last Penny for American Taxpayers Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Welcomes CEOs to White House Forum on Modernizing Government Fact sheet: White House Forum on Modernizing Government Released January 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the Middle East visit of National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr. Text: Public Summary of the Inventory of Files Related to Fort Hood Shooting Released January 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing on relief efforts in Haiti by Denis R. McDonough, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications; Tim Callaghan, Senior Regional Adviser for Latin America and the Caribbean for the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance; and Col. Albert "Buck" Elton, USAF, commander, Special Operations Command South Haiti Text: United States Government Haiti Earthquake Disaster Response Update Released January 18 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing on the U.S. Government response to the Haiti earthquake by Capt. John Kirby, USN, spokesman for Joint Task Force Haiti; Tim Callaghan, USAID Senior Regional Adviser for Latin America and the Caribbean for the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance; Rear Adm. Michael S. Rogers, USN, Director of Intelligence for the Joint Staff; and Capt. Andrew C. Stevermer, USPHS Commissioned Corps, commander of the Incident Response Coordination Team for Health and Human Services Statement by the Press Secretary: President and Mrs. Obama, Cabinet Secretaries, Senior Administration Officials Honor Martin Luther King, Jr., National Day of Service by Participating in Community Service Projects Around Washington, DC Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's State of the Union Address Text: United States Government Haiti Earthquake Disaster Response Update Released January 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing on the U.S. Government response to the Haiti earthquake by Tim Callaghan, USAID Senior Regional Adviser for Latin America and the Caribbean for the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance; Maj. Gen. Daniel B. Allyn, USA, deputy commander, Joint Task Force Haiti; Joe Knerr, Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue Team Leader; and Capt. John Kirby, USN, spokesman for Joint Task Force Haiti Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Announce Plans for "Race to the Top" Expansion (dated January 18; embargoed until January 19) Statement by the Press Secretary on the Massachusetts Senate race Text: United States Government Haiti Earthquake Disaster Response Update Released January 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing on the U.S. Government response to the Haiti earthquake by Capt. Andrew C. Stevermer, USPHS Commissioned Corps, commander of the Incident Response Coordination Team for Health and Human Services Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Directs Administration to Crack Down on Tax Cheats Seeking Government Contracts Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the meeting between National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Minister of Foreign Affairs Abu Abdallah Bakr al-Qirbi of Yemen Text: United States Government Haiti Earthquake Disaster Response Update Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the tax delinquency memorandum Released January 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board Chief Economist Austan Goolsbee Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls for New Restrictions on Size and Scope of Financial Institutions to Rein in Excesses and Protect Taxpayers Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches Citizens Medal Public Nomination Process Text: United States Government Haiti Earthquake Disaster Response Update Released January 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: First Open Gov Deadline Brings Online Treasure Trove of Information Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4462 Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Elyria, OH Released January 24 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arizona Released January 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Vice President Biden Preview Initiatives for Middle Class Families Fact sheet: Supporting Middle Class Families Released January 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 27 Statement by the Press Secretary: Rescue, Rebuild, Restore—A New Foundation for Prosperity Statement by the Press Secretary on statutory pay-as-you-go legislation Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 2949 Excerpts of the President's State of the Union Address Advance text of the President's State of the Union Address  Text: Guest list for the First Lady's Box at the 2010 State of the Union Released January 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden to Announce $8 Billion for High-Speed Rail Projects Across the Country Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Propose New Small Business Jobs and Wages Tax Cut Fact sheet: Small Business Jobs and Wages Tax Cut Released January 29 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Sets Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Target for Federal Operations Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New Proposal To Create Jobs, Cut Taxes for Small Businesses Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 1817, H.R. 2877, H.R. 3072, H.R. 3319, H.R. 3539, H.R. 3667, H.R. 3767, H.R. 3788, and H.R. 4508. Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the Advance Estimate of GDP for the Fourth Quarter of 2009 Released January 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Released February 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag and Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Outline New Small Business Lending Fund Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1377 and S. 692 Fact sheet: Administration Announces New $30 Billion Small Business Lending Fund Released February 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Outlines New Small Business Lending Fund Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Carolina Excerpts of the President's remarks at a town hall meeting in Nashua, NH (dated February 1; embargoed until February 2) Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Nashua, NH Released February 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Announces Steps To Boost Biofuels, Clean Coal Released February 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arkansas Released February 5 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Outlines Latest in a Series of New Small Business Proposals Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and CIA Director Panetta Speak at CIA Memorial Service Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Jersey Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in January Excerpts of Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon E. Panetta's remarks at a memorial service for CIA officers in Langley, VA Released February 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released February 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer Statement by the Press Secretary: Dr. Christina Romer Discusses the Economic Report of the President Statement by the Press Secretary on the release of the draft Senate jobs bill Released February 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Sebelius, Solis Announce Nearly $1 Billion Recovery Act Investment in Advancing Use of Health IT, Training Workers for Health Jobs of the Future Statement by the Press Secretary on Haiti Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 45 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr.'s visit to Afghanistan and Pakistan Released February 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Announces Loan Guarantees To Construct New Nuclear Power Reactors in Georgia Statement by the Press Secretary on the naming of Robert Ford as U.S. Ambassador to Damascus Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 730 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Virginia Advance text of the President's remarks on energy in Lanham, MD Announcement: Administration Officials Visiting Over 35 Communities This Week To Survey Recovery Act Progress, Job Creation at One-Year Mark Excerpts of the Vice President's annual report to the President on progress implementing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Released February 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Secretary LaHood Announces Funding for Over 50 Innovative, Strategic Transportation Projects through Landmark Competitive TIGER Program Statement by the Press Secretary: Recovery by the Numbers: The Recovery Act at One Year Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of King Juan Carlos I of Spain to the White House Released February 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Establishes Bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's meeting with Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's meeting with international human rights activists Fact sheet: Help for the Hardest Hit Housing Markets (dated February 18; embargoed until February 19) Released February 19 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Department of Education Announce Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Help for Hardest Hit Housing Markets Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Maryland Released February 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls for New Steps To Prepare America's Children for Success in College and Careers Fact sheet: Preparing Students for Success in College and the Workforce Released February 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released February 24 Advance text of the President's remarks to the Business Roundtable Released February 25 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Nebraska Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Iowa Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Released February 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs Executive Order Promoting Excellence, Innovation and Sustainability at Historically Black Colleges and Universities Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Re-establishes President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Yeoryios Papandreou of Greece to the White House Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Dakota Released February 27 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Julianna Smoot as Social Secretary Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 3961 and H.R. 4532 Released February 28 Text: Release of President's Medical Exam Released March 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Steps to Reduce Dropout Rates and Prepare Students for College and Careers Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed S. 2950 Fact sheet: Reducing the Dropout Rate and Helping All Students Graduate College and Career Ready Released March 2 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Iowa Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to West Virginia Fact sheet: HOMESTAR Energy Efficiency Retrofit Program Released March 3 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that on March 2 the President signed H.R. 4691 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to the District of Columbia Excerpts of the President's remarks on health care reform Advance text of the President's remarks on health care reform Released March 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 1299 Released March 5 Statement by the Press Secretary on A New Beginning: Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Rene Garcia Preval of Haiti to the White House Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in February Released March 7 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Host Space Conference in Florida in April Released March 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to California Excerpts of the President's remarks on health care reform in Glenside, PA Released March 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the Senate cloture vote on legislation extending various Tax Code provisions and unemployment aid Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kansas Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Released March 10 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New Effort To Crack Down on Waste and Fraud Statement by the Press Secretary on the passing of Egyptian cleric Sheikh Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Excerpts of remarks by Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius at the America's Health Insurance Plans conference Text: United States Government Haiti Earthquake Disaster Response Released March 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement: The President Donates Nobel Prize Money to Charity Fact sheet: President Obama Details Administration Efforts To Support Two Million New Jobs by Promoting More U.S. Exports Advance text of the President's remarks at the Export-Import Bank's annual conference Released March 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on First Lady Michelle Obama's visit to Mexico City, Mexico Released March 14 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Dakota Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the murder of individuals associated with the U.S. Consulate in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico Released March 15 Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, National Security Council Senior Director for East Asian Affairs Jeff Bader, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the President's visit to Guam, Indonesia, and Australia Advance text of the President's remarks on health care reform in Strongsville, OH Released March 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released March 17 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 2968 Released March 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the President delaying his visit to Indonesia, and Australia Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arizona Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the HIRE Act Released March 19 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Minnesota Advance text of the President's remarks at George Mason University in Fairfax, VA Released March 21 Text: Statement by Deputy Communications Director Dan Pfeiffer concerning an Executive order ensuring enforcement of restrictions on the use of Federal funds for abortions Released March 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released March 23 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Forum on Workplace Flexibility Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Jersey Released March 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to the District of Columbia Released March 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3433 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Maine Fact sheet: Key Facts about the New START Treaty Advance text of the President's remarks on health care reform in Iowa City, Iowa Released March 26 Transcript of a press briefing Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4938 and S. 3186 Advance text of the President's remarks on the new START Treaty Released March 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official Released March 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on China Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to West Virginia Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Rhode Island Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Hampshire Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Massachusetts Released March 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs Historic Health Care and Education Legislation Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Rhode Island Text: Letter from Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada, President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, President Barack Obama of the United States, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to their G–20 counterparts in preparation for the G–20 summit in Toronto, Canada Released March 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Announces Comprehensive Strategy for Energy Security Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady Host White House Forum on Workplace Flexibility Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4957 and S. 1147 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Delaware Advance text of the President's remarks on energy at Andrews Air Force Base, MD Released April 1 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Fact sheet: Small Business Health Care Tax Credit Advance text of the President's remarks on health care reform in Portland, ME Released April 2 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Kenyan Parliament's approval of a new draft Constitution Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Jersey Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in March Announcement: White House To Host Childhood Obesity Meeting on Friday, April 9 Released April 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released April 7 Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Marks Major Open Government Milestone Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 80 and H.R. 4621 Announcement: Updated: White House To Host Childhood Obesity Meeting on Friday, April 9 Released April 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russian Affairs Michael McFaul Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Presses for Answers on Mine Safety Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Kyrgyzstan Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty in Prague, Czech Republic Released April 9 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by National Security Council Coordinator for Arms Control and Nonproliferation Gary Samore and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the nuclear security summit Transcript of a press gaggle by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis R. McDonough Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Department of Education Announce Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Finalists Released April 10 Transcript of a press briefing by National Economic Council member Brian Deese, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy Michael Mundaca, and Vice President Biden's Chief Economist Jared Bernstein on Recovery Act tax credits available to American families (dated April 9; embargoed until April 10) Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's meeting with President Viktor Yanukovych of Ukraine Fact sheet: Recovery Act Tax Relief (dated April 9; embargoed until April 10) Released April 11 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communication Ben Rhodes, Senior Director for Russia and the Caucasus Mike McFaul, and Senior Director for Weapons of Mass Destruction, Terrorism, and Threat Reduction Laura Holgate on the President's bilateral meetings and the nuclear security summit Text: Joint Statement on the Meeting between President Obama and Kazakhstan President Nazarbayev Released April 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Assistant to the President for Counterterrorism and Homeland Security John O. Brennan Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Jeff Bader Statement by the Press Secretary on Prime Minister Stephen Harper's announcement that Canada will return nuclear fuel to the U.S. Fact sheet: Ukraine's Non-Proliferation Efforts Fact sheet: Recovery Act Tax Savings for American Families Released April 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communication Ben Rhodes, National Security Council Coordinator for Arms Control and Nonproliferation Gary Samore, and Senior Director for Weapons of Mass Destruction, Terrorism, and Threat Reduction Laura Holgate Statement by the Press Secretary: Trilateral Announcement between Mexico, the United States, and Canada on Nuclear Security Statement by the Press Secretary on a bipartisan meeting to discuss the Supreme Court vacancy Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to Poland to attend the state funeral of President Lech Kaczynski and First Lady Maria Kaczynska Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama To Host Olympic and Paralympic Athletes at the White House Text: National Statement of the United States (Nuclear Security Summit) Text: Communique of the Washington Nuclear Security Summit Text: Work Plan of the Washington Nuclear Security Summit Text: Nuclear Security Summit Work Plan Reference Document Text: Key Facts about the Nuclear Security Summit Text: Highlights of National Commitments Released April 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner Statement by the Press Secretary: New CEA Report Finds Recovery Act Already Responsible for about 2.5 Million Jobs Statement by the Press Secretary on the earthquake in China Released April 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4851 Fact sheet: Florida's Space Workers and the New Approach to Human Spaceflight (dated April 13; released April 15) Fact sheet: A Bold Approach for Space Exploration and Discovery Advance text of the President's remarks at the John F. Kennedy Space Center in Merritt Island, FL Announcement: White House Releases President Obama and Vice President Biden's 2009 Tax Returns Released April 16 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Pennsylvania Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New York Released April 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to New York City to deliver remarks on financial reform at Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art Statement by the Press Secretary on the President and Vice President attending the memorial service for the victims of the Upper Big Branch mine disaster in Beckley, WV Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Minnesota Released April 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on elections in Sudan Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Iowa, Missouri and Illinois for Next Stops of the White House to Main Street Tour Fact sheet: President's Export Control Reform Initiative Announcement: New Details: President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama To Host Olympic and Paralympic Athletes at the White House Released April 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Vice President Biden Kicks Off Five Days of Earth Day Activities With Announcement of Major New Energy Efficiency Effort Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Dakota Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Nebraska Excerpts of remarks by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy Transcript of remarks by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy Released April 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Announcement: President Obama To Honor World Series Champion New York Yankees at the White House Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's Oval Office meeting to discuss the situation in the Gulf of Mexico Advance text of the President's remarks on financial reform at Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art in New York City Announcement: Public Voting Begins Monday for Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Announcement: President Obama To Honor World Series Champion New York Yankees at the White House Released April 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, National Security Council Senior Director for Global Engagement Pradeep Ramamurthy, Commerce Department Undersecretary for International Trade Francisco Sanchez, and State Department Undersecretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Judith McHale on the Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship Statement by the Press Secretary on the detention of three American hikers in Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Connecticut Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to West Virginia Released April 25 Excerpts of the President's remarks at a memorial service for victims of the Upper Big Branch mine disaster in Beckley, WV Advance text of the President's remarks at a memorial service for victims of the Upper Big Branch mine disaster in Beckley, WV Announcement: Public Voting Begins Tomorrow for Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Released April 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advance text of the President's remarks at the Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship Released April 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton and Agriculture Secretary Thomas J. Vilsack Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Virginia Fact sheet: Young Adults and the Affordable Care Act Advance text of the President's remarks on the first meeting of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform Advance text of the President's remarks at Siemens Energy, Inc., in Fort Madison, IA Transcript of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers at the Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship Released April 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Advance text of the President's remarks at POET Biorefining in Macon, MO Advanced text of the President's remarks on financial regulatory reform in Quincy, IL Released April 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Department of the Interior Deputy Secretary David J. Hayes, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson, Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Administrator Jane Lubchenco, and Rear Adm. Sally Brice-O'Hara, USCG, Deputy Commandant for Operations, Coast Guard Headquarters, on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President will address the annual meeting of the Business Council Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Mississippi Text: Statement from Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius on News that California Insurer, Anthem, is Withdrawing Proposed 39-Precent Rate Increase Released April 30 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Travel to Central New Jersey Statement by the Press Secretary: Top 3 Finalists Announced for Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 5147 and S. 3253 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Dakota Text: Romer Post: Statement on the Advanced Estimate of GDP for First Quarter of 2010 Released May 1 Advance text of the President's commencement address at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, MI Released May 2 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary that the President's visit to New Jersey on Wednesday has been canceled Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's briefing on the attempted terrorist attack in Times Square  Released May 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Top Administration Officials Discuss Ongoing Oil Spill Response With BP Leadership Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alabama Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Massachusetts Released May 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Kalamazoo Central High School Wins Commencement Challenge Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Tennessee Fact sheet: The Affordable Care Act's Early Retirees Reinsurance Program Released May 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released May 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, Mayor Karl Dean of Nashville, TN, and American Red Cross Senior Vice President for Disaster Relief Joe Becker on the flooding in Tennessee Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Welcome NCAA Champion University of Connecticut Women's Basketball Team Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's travel to the Buffalo, NY area on Thursday, May 13th to discuss the economy Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's Southeastern Flood Briefing Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Greece Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Maryland Released May 7 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes and Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute on the upcoming visit by President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary: Senior Administration Officials Visit Tennessee To Support Response and Recovery Efforts Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4360 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to California Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in April Released May 9 Advance text of the President's commencement address at Hampton University in Hampton, VA Released May 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry, and Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady To Host White House Jewish American Heritage Month Reception Released May 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Releases National Strategy To Reduce Drug Use and Its Consequences Statement by the Press Secretary: Child Obesity Task Force Unveils Action Plan: Solving the Problem of Childhood Obesity Within a Generation Statement by the Press Secretary: Cabinet and Senior Administration Officials Scheduled To Join in National Lab Day Events To Promote "Educate to Innovate" Campaign for Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Education Statement by the Press Secretary on Egypt's state of emergency extension Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Alan Garcia Perez of Peru to the White House Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kentucky Released May 12 Transcript of a press briefing by White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes, Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner, and Office of Management and Budget Acting Deputy Director Jeffrey B. Liebman on oil spill response legislation Statement by the Press Secretary: First Lady Michelle Obama Announces Presidential Directive on Military Families Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din al-Hariri of Lebanon Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Hampshire Fact sheet: Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Legislative Package Released May 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Welcome NCAA Champion University of Connecticut W omen's Basketball Team  Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to Youngstown, OH Statement by the Press Secretary on the Submission of the new START Treaty to the Senate Statements by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Fact sheet: The New START Treaty—Maintaining a Strong Nuclear Deterrent Advance text of the President's remarks at Industrial Support, Inc., in Buffalo, NY Released May 14 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 5146 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Mississippi Released May 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Welcome NCAA Men's Basketball Champion Duke University Blue Devils at the White House Statement by the Press Secretary on Iran Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 3714 Released May 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by a senior administration official on the visit of President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico Advance text of the President's remarks at V&M STAR Ohio in Youngstown, OH Released May 19 Statement by the Press Secretary on the sinking of South Korean Navy patrol ship Cheonan Text of remarks by President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico at a White House welcoming ceremony Text: Joint Pakistan-U.S. statement on the visit of National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon E. Panetta to Pakistan on May 18–19 Released May 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on a Malawi court ruling criminalizing the sexual orientation and gender identity of Steven Monjeza and Tiwonge Chimbalanga Released May 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Directs Administration To Create First-Ever National Efficiency and Emissions Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Trucks Released May 22 Advance text of the President's commencement address at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY Released May 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Adm. Thad W. Allen, and Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady to Host Concert Honoring Paul McCartney in the East Room Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden To Participate in Memorial Day Ceremonies Statement by the Press Secretary on the sinking of the South Korean Navy patrol ship Cheonan Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 1121, H.R. 1442, H.R. 2802, H.R. 5148, H.R. 5160, and S. 1067 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Text: Letter from Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag in response to a letter from Sens. Carl Levin and Joe Lieberman and Rep. Patrick Murphy regarding "Don't ask, don't tell"  Released May 25 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls on Congress to Pass a Small Business Jobs Package Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to Louisiana's Gulf Coast Fact sheet: President Obama Calls for Passage of Small Business Jobs Package, Including Two New Lending Initiatives Advance text of the President's remarks calling on Congress to pass small-business jobs legislation  Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the parliamentary elections in Ethiopia Text: Letter from Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan and National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr. to Sen. Carl Levin, conveying the President's decision to provide additional support for strategic and integrated Southwest border security Released May 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to Chicago, IL Text: Transcript of remarks by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan at the Center for Strategic and International Studies Released May 27 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Travel to Louisiana Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority Statement by the Press Secretary on the Senate introduction of HOMESTAR legislation Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 5014, S. 1782, and S. 3333 Fact Sheet: Advancing Our Interests: Actions in Support of the President's National Security Strategy  Released May 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text: Statement by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., on the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference Text: Memorandum from White House Counsel Robert Bauer regarding the review of discussions relating to Representative Joe Sestak Text: Excerpt of Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer's op-ed: Keeping Teachers in the Classroom Released May 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on President Bingu wa Mutharika of Malawi pardoning Steven Monjeza and Tiwonge Chimbalanga Released May 31 Advance text of the President's Memorial Day remarks at Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery in Elwood, IL Advance text of the President's Memorial Day remarks at Andrews Air Force Base, MD Released June 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on Iraq's Federal Supreme Court certification of Iraqi election results Released June 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on the resignation of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan Excerpts of the President's remarks at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA Advance text of the President's remarks at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA Released June 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statements by the Press Secretary on President Obama's return visit to the Louisiana Gulf Coast Statement by the Press Secretary on Andrew Romanoff's Colorado Senate race Statement by the Press Secretary on the 2011 APEC leaders meeting in Honolulu, HI Released June 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Cabinet Secretaries, Senior Officials Hold Events Across the Country to Highlight Administration's Commitment to Job Creation, Economic Growth Statement by the Press Secretary: Chefs Answer the First Lady's Call To Join Let's Move! Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the election of Naoto Kan as Prime Minister of Japan Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the Israeli military's raid on the Turkish ferry MV Mavi Marmara Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in May Released June 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and National Incident Commander for the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Mathematics and Science Teachers Statement by the Press Secretary: Senior Across America to Host Local Meetings, Participate in Health Care Tele-Town Hall Meeting with President Obama Excerpts of the President's commencement address at Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo, MI Advance text of the President's commencement address at Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo, MI Released June 8 Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to Gulf Coast States on June 14–15 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 5128 and H.R. 5139 Fact sheet: The Affordable Health Care Act: Strengthening Medicare, Combating Misinformation and Protecting America's Seniors Released June 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 2711, H.R. 3250, H.R. 3634, H.R. 3892, H.R. 4017, H.R. 4095, H.R. 4139, H.R. 4214, H.R. 4238, H.R. 4425, H.R. 4547, H.R. 4628, and H.R. 5330 Fact sheet: U.S. Assistance to the West Bank and Gaza Fact sheet: New U.N. Security Council Sanctions on Iran Released June 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text: Letter from Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill National Incident Commander Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG, to BP Chairman of the Board Carl-Henric Svanberg Released June 11 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Celebrate Father's Day Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Dmitry Medvedev of Russia Advance text of the President's remarks on small-business legislation Released June 13 Statement by the Press Secretary on Israel's investigation into the Gaza Freedom Flotilla incident Released June 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released June 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives action on legislation to provide tax incentives for small-business job creation and to increase the availability of credit for small businesses Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed S. 3473 Advance text of the President's national address on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico Released June 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, Undersecretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Stuart Levey, Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner, and Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Incident Commander Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG Fact sheet: Claims and Escrow  Advance text of the President's remarks on meeting with BP p.l.c. leadership Released June 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Vice President Joe Biden and Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Administration Kicks Off "Recovery Summer" with Groundbreakings and Events Across the Country Statement by the Press Secretary on Representative Joe Barton's apology to BP p.l.c. representatives during a congressional hearing Released June 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released June 20 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in the Gaza Strip Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia Released June 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches Next Phase in Fatherhood Efforts With the President's Fatherhood and Mentoring Initiative Statement by the Press Secretary on Congress's Iran sanctions conference report agreement Released June 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: On Anniversary of Olmstead, President Obama Highlights Administration's Actions to Assist Americans with Disabilities Fact sheet: The Affordable Care Act's New Patient's Bill of Rights Text of a letter to Senators Leahy and Sessions from former Solicitors General expressing their support of Solicitor General Elena Kagan's nomination to the Supreme Court  Announcement: White House Appoints 2010–2011 Class of White House Fellows Released June 23 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes and Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russia and Central Asian Affairs Michael McFaul on the visit of President Dmitry Medvedev of Russia (dated June 22; released June 23) Statement by the Press Secretary: First Lady Launches President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition Text: Excerpts of a joint op-ed piece by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers titled "Our Agenda for the G–20" Text of a letter to Senators Leahy and Sessions from law clerks expressing their support of Solicitor General Elena Kagan's nomination to the Supreme Court  Released June 24 Statement by the Press Secretary on Republican Obstruction of Jobless Benefits and State Aid Statement by the Press Secretary on the New Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S. Humanitarian Assistance and the Situation in Yemen Statement by the Press Secretary on Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol Browner's meeting with BP executives Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to West Virginia Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Puerto Rico Fact sheet: U.S.-Russia Relations: "Reset" Fact Sheet Text of a joint statement by the coordinators of the U.S.-Russia Presidential Commission Released June 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3962 Fact sheet: The United States Government's Haiti Earthquake Response Fact sheet: National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace Fact sheet: A New Approach to Advancing Development Fact sheet: The G–8 Muskoka Summit: Saving Lives Through New G–8 Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Initiative Fact sheet: The G–8 Muskoka Summit: A Historic Commitment to Accountability Fact sheet: The G–8 Muskoka Summit: Following Through on Food Security Fact sheet: An Improved Approach to Agriculture and Food Security: Haiti Fact sheet: An Improved Approach to Agriculture and Food Security: Rwanda Fact sheet: An Improved Approach to Agriculture and Food Security: Bangladesh Released June 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Jeff Bader, and National Security Council Director for Asian Affairs Danny Russel Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S.-Ghana World Cup match Text: G–8 Muskoka Declaration: Recovery and New Beginnings Text: G–8 Muskoka: Non-proliferation and Iran Text: G–8 Leaders Statement on Countering Terrorism Text: G–8 Summit: Joint Statement on the Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict by Dmitry Medvedev, President of the Russian Federation, Barack Obama, President of the United States of America, and Nicolas Sarkozy, President of the French Republic Released June 27 Text: The U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership Text: G–20 Toronto Summit: U.S. Financial Reform and the G–20 Leaders' Agenda Text: G–20 Toronto Summit: Acting on Our Global Energy and Climate Change Challenges Text: G–20 Toronto Summit: A Global Response Through the Multilateral Development Banks to Promote Sustainable Development Text: G–20 Toronto Summit: Progress Since Pittsburgh Text: The G–20 Summit in Toronto: Global Leadership To Combat Corruption Text: The G–20 Toronto Summit Declaration Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a news conference in Toronto, Canada Released June 28 Statement by the Press Secretary on Protecting the Flathead River Basin Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former Lithuanian President Algirdas Brazauskas Fact sheet: The National Space Policy Fact sheet: Doubling the Amount of Commercial Spectrum To Unleash the Innovative Potential of Wireless Broadband Excerpts of Supreme Court Associate Justice-designate Elena Kagan's opening statement before the Senate Judiciary Committee Released June 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden to Attend the Memorial Service for U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd Statement by the Press Secretary: Administration Officials Continue Travel Across the Country for "Recovery Summer" Events, Project Site Visits Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that on June 28 the President signed H.R. 3951 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Texas Released June 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S.J. Res. 33 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the 60th anniversary of the U.S.-Pakistan Fulbright Program Excerpts of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Racine, WI Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Racine, WI Released July 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Incident Commander Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of legislation extending unemployment insurance benefits Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Maine Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 Released July 2 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Daniel B.  Shapiro on the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel Statement by the Press Secretary: Background on the President's Recovery Act Announcement Tomorrow (dated July 1) Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 5569, H.R. 5611, and H.R. 5623 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Minnesota Fact sheet: Executive Order on Optimizing the Security of Biological Select Agents and Toxins in the United States Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in June Released July 3 Fact sheet: President's Recovery Act Announcement Released July 4 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on Syrian Convictions of Human Rights activists Released July 6 Statement by the Press Secretary: Administration Officials Continue Travel Across the Country for "Recovery Summer" Events, Project Site Visits Released July 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Provides Progress Report on National Export Initiative, Announces Members of the President's Export Council Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed S. 1660, S. 2865, and S.J. Res. 32 Advance text of the President's opening remarks announcing the creation of the President's Export Council Released July 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: White House to Unveil National HIV/AIDS Strategy Advance text of the President's remarks at Smith Electric Vehicles in Kansas City, MO Released July 9 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Leonel Fernandez Reyna of the Dominican Republic Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the UN Security Council Presidential Statement on the Cheonan Advance text of the President's remarks at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, in Las Vegas, NV Released July 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Montana Released July 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: White House to Unveil National HIV/AIDS Strategy Released July 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: First Lady Michelle Obama, Dr. Jill Biden, HHS Secretary Sebelius To Discuss New Preventive Health Benefits Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces National HIV/AIDS Strategy Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed S. 3104 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the International Criminal Court appeals court ruling Text: Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesman Benjamin Chang on meetings between National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and NATO Secretary General Rasmussen, senior French officials, and other allies in Paris and Brussels Announcement: President Obama To Honor WNBA Champion Phoenix Mercury at the White House Released July 14 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by senior administration officials on the Al Shabaab terrorist group (dated July 13; released July 14) Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Vice President Biden, CEA Chair Romer Release New Analysis on Job and Economic Impact of the Recovery Act Statement by the Press Secretary: Department of Energy Releases New Report on Economic Impact of Recovery Act Advanced Vehicle Investments Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Wyoming Released July 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Nebraska Advance text of the President's remarks at Compact Power, Inc., in Holland, MI Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency Evaluation of the IG's Operations in Afghanistan Text: Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesman Benjamin Chang on National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr.'s visit to New Delhi, India Released July 16 Text: Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesman Benjamin Chang on National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr.'s visit to Afghanistan Released July 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls on Republicans To End Obstruction of Unemployment Benefits, Urges Congress To Pass Critical Aid for Millions of Americans Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Sign Wall Street Reform Bill Advance text of the President's remarks on legislation extending unemployment insurance benefits Released July 20 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Expands Greenhouse Gas Reduction Target for Federal Operations Released July 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the continued Senate delay of extending unemployment insurance legislation Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's forum with young African leaders Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Released July 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Sign Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Statement by the Press Secretary: First Family To Travel to Florida's Gulf Coast Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 4213 Fact sheet: The Improper Payment Elimination and Recovery Act and the Administration's Efforts To Cut Wasteful Improper Payments Released July 23 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Deliver Speech on Education Reform at the National Urban League Convention Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Auto Plants in Michigan, Illinois Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Discuss the Economy in New Jersey Statement by the Press Secretary on transparency in the energy sector Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kentucky Released July 25 Text: Statement of National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., on the WikiLeaks web site posting documents concerning military operations in Afghanistan Released July 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Discuss the Economy in New Jersey Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Released July 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Meet With Small Business Owners, Urge Congress To Act To Support Small Businesses and Create Jobs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Two Auto Plants in Michigan Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 689, H.R. 3360, H.R. 4840, H.R. 5502, and H.J. Res. 83 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Idaho Fact sheet: President Obama Urges Congress To Act To Support Small Businesses Seeking To Invest, Grow and Hire Released July 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: Super Bowl Champion New Orleans Saints To Visit White House Released July 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Treasury Department Senior Adviser for Auto Issues Ron Bloom, and Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers Edward B. Montgomery Statement by the Press Secretary on BP's contribution to support unemployed oil rig workers Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Speak at Disabled American Veterans National Convention in Atlanta, GA Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 4899 and H.R. 5610 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Iowa Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Text: Statement by Treasury Department Senior Adviser for Auto Issues Ron Bloom and Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers Edward B. Montgomery on rebuilding the American auto industry Text: Report: Rebuilding the American Auto Industry Released July 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy Brian Deese Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 5849 and S. 3372 Fact sheet: Recovery Act in Michigan Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the second quarter and GDP revisions for the 2010 advance GDP estimate Released August 1 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 5900 Released August 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Present the 2010 Citizens Medal Advance text of the President's remarks at the national convention of Disabled American Veterans in Atlanta, GA Text: Facts and Figures on Drawdown in Iraq Released August 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 4861, H.R. 5051, H.R. 5099, and S. 1789 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Texas Fact sheet: The President's Engagement in Africa Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on human rights issues in Russia Text of an op-ed piece by Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner titled "Welcome to the Recovery" Released August 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Incident Commander Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG, Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Administrator Jane Lubchenco Transcript of remarks by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs to the travel pool Statement by the Press Secretary: Agriculture Secretary Vilsack Announces Over 120 Recovery Act Broadband Projects To Bring Jobs, Economic Opportunity to Rural Communities Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Winners of the 2010 Citizens Medals Released August 5 Statement by the Press Secretary: Dr. Christina Romer, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, To return to the University of California, Berkeley Released August 6 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 4684 and S. 1053 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in July Released August 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Text: Statement by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., on the U.S. Response to Flooding in Pakistan Advance text of the President's remarks at the University of Texas at Austin in Austin, TX Released August 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statements by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1586, H.R. 2765, H.R. 5874, and S. 1749 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kansas Released August 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 5872 and H.R. 5981 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Wisconsin Released August 12 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Travel to Wisconsin Monday Fact sheet: President's Strategic and Integrated Southwest Border Security Strategy Released August 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Honor NCAA Champion Student Athletes at the White House Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 6080 Announcement: Expected Attendees at the White House Iftar Dinner Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on National Elections in Rwanda Advance text of the President's remarks at an iftar dinner Released August 14 Advance text of the President's remarks in Panama City Beach, FL Released August 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Ohio Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Miami, Florida Advance text of the President's remarks at ZBB Energy Corporation in Menomonee Falls, WI Released August 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama's Participation in Summit With European Union Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Participate in NATO Summit in Lisbon on November 19–20 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Missouri Released August 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: Vice President Biden Announces Recovery Act Investments in Broadband Projects To Bring Jobs, Economic Opportunity to Communities Nationwide Released August 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Illinois Released August 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton and Assistant to the President for Counterterrorism and Homeland Security John O. Brennan Released August 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton and Assistant to the President for Counterterrorism and Homeland Security John O. Brennan Released August 25 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Administration Officials To Mark 5th Anniversary of Hurricane Katrina With Travel to Gulf Coast, Project Site Visits Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Travel to Fort Bliss, Texas and Address the Nation on the Iraq War Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Deliver Back to School Speech on September 14 Released August 26 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, First Lady Travel to New Orleans, LA Released August 28 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to Fort Bliss, Texas Released August 29 Advance text of the President's remarks at Xavier University in New Orleans, LA Released August 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Lays the Foundation for a New Export Control System To Strengthen National Security and the Competiveness of Key U.S. Manufacturing and Technology Sectors Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Speak at the Milwaukee Laborfest Released August 31 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Transcript of a press briefing by U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell on upcoming Middle East peace talks Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack in the southern West Bank Excerpts of the President's national address on the end of combat operations in Iraq Advance text of the President's national address on the end of combat operations in Iraq Released September 1 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Carolina Released September 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: New Details: President Obama to Speak at Milwaukee Laborfest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Hold Events on Economy in Wisconsin and Ohio, Press Conference at End of the Week Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Massachusetts Released September 3 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Host Second U.S.-ASEAN Leaders Meeting Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medal of Honor Statement by the Press Secretary on the upcoming visit of Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attacks in Pakistan Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the August employment situation Released September 5 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Deliver Remarks on the Economy in Cleveland Area Released September 6 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Announce Plan To Renew and Expand America's Roads, Railways, and Runways Fact sheet: Renewing and Expanding America's Roads, Railways, and Runways Advance text of the President's remarks at Milwaukee's Laborfest in Milwaukee, WI Released September 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Hold News Conference Friday, September 10, 2010 Released September 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Speak at Pentagon Memorial Service Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Honor NCAA Champion Student Athletes at the White House Advance text of the President's remarks on the National Economy in Cleveland, OH Released September 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medal of Honor Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces the Release of Federal Agency Strategic Sustainability Performance Plans, Outlines Commitment to Achieve Environmental and Energy Goals Statement by the Press Secretary: Updated: President Obama To Deliver Back-to-School Speech September 14 Released September 10 Statement by the Press Secretary: New Details: President Obama To Deliver Back-to-School Speech September 14 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Hold Discussion on the Economy in Fairfax, Virginia Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady, Vice President and Dr. Biden to Commemorate 9/11 and National Day of Service and Remembrance Fact sheet: President Obama Has Signed Eight Small Business Tax Cuts Into Law, Pledges to Sign Eight New Tax Cuts Benefitting Millions of Small Businesses Released September 11 Statement by the Press Secretary: New Details: President Obama to Deliver Back-to-School Speech September 14 Released September 12 Statement by the Press Secretary on Representative John A. Boehner's Change in Position on Tax Cuts for the Middle Class Released September 13 Advance text of the President's remarks at Julia R. Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School in Philadelphia, PA Released September 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Travel to Connecticut Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Mexico Text: Memorandum from Chief Performance Officer Jeffrey D. Zients for the Senior Executive Service reviewing the Accountable Government Initiative  Released September 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: In New Video, President Obama Encourages Troops and Veterans To Claim 'Stop Loss' Pay Statement by the Press Secretary: Increasing America's Competitiveness in the Global Economy Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Tennessee Advance text of the President's remarks at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Annual Awards Gala Released September 16 Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials on the Parliamentary elections in Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases Report to the President on the National Export Initiative (dated September 15; embargoed until September 16) Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Announce Major Expansion of "Educate to Innovate" Campaign to Improve Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Education (dated September 15; embargoed until September 16) Released September 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medal of Honor Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Travel to Philadelphia Released September 18 Advance text of the President's remarks at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Phoenix Awards Dinner Released September 20 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Permanent Representative to the U.N. Susan E. Rice, and Senior Director of Multilateral Affairs Samantha Power Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to New York City Statement by the Press Secretary: Advancing U.S. Interests at the United Nations Released September 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Dr. Lawrence H. Summers, Director of the National Economic Council, To Return to Harvard University at the End of the Year Released September 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman and Senior Director for International Development Gayle Smith previewing the President's speech at the United Nations Millennium Development Goals Summit Fact sheet: The Six Month Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act (dated September 21; embargoed until September 22) Fact sheet: U.S. Global Development Policy Fact sheet: President Obama's Development Policy and the Global Climate Change Initiative Fact sheet: President Obama's Global Development Policy and Global Food Security  Fact sheet: President Obama's Global Development Policy and the Global Health Initiative Advance text of the President's remarks at the United Nations Millennium Development Goals Summit in New York City Released September 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Asian Affairs Jeff Bader, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary on the Justice Department filing in Log Cabin Republicans v. United States of America Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Fact sheet: U.S. Commitment to Civil Society Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Open Government Fact sheet: Advancing Democracy and Human Rights Excerpts of the President's remarks to the United Nations General Assembly (dates September 22; embargoed until September 23) Advance text of the President's remarks to the United Nations General Assembly Released September 24 Transcript of a briefing by National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough on the United Nations Ministerial Meeting on Sudan Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the President's interview with BBC Persian Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Visit Des Moines, Iowa Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Visit Albuquerque, New Mexico Fact sheet: U.S. Assistance to Kyrgyzstan Excerpt from the President's interview with BBC Persian Released September 27 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Goal of Recruiting 10,000 STEM Teachers Over the Next Two Years Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Richmond, VA Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 6102 and S. 3656 Released September 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Address 2010 Fortune Most Powerful Women Summit on October 5th in Washington, DC Statement by the Press Secretary on a stem cell research court decision Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to the U.S. Virgin Islands Released September 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on the new Executive order designating Iranian officials responsible for or complicit in serious human rights abuses Released September 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3081 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1445, H.R. 3562, H.R. 3940, H.R. 3978, H.R. 4505, H.R. 4667, H.R. 5682, H.R. 6190, S. 3814, and S. 3839 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on Senate Approval of the Hague Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and Other Forms of Family Maintenance Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the Freedom of Assembly and Association Resolution at the U.N. Human Rights Council Released October 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Award Medal of Honor Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the Resolution on Elimination of Discrimination Against Women at the U.N. Human Rights Council Released October 2 Fact sheet: President's Clean Energy Radio Address Released October 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Announce Launch of Skill's for America's Future Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to Chicago Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to New Jersey Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arizona Released October 5 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 1517, S. 846, S. 1055, S. 1674, S. 2781, and S. 3717 Fact sheet: Building American Skills by Strengthening Community Colleges  Advance text of the President's remarks at Fortune's Most Powerful Women Summit in Washington, DC Advance text of National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., at the Sochi Security Council Gathering in Sochi, Russia Released October 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to Philadephia Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 553 Released October 8 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to Miami Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 714, H.R. 1177, S. 2868, S. 3751, S. 3828, and S. 3847 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan D. Goolsbee Released October 11 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Holds Meeting on Infrastructure Investment, New Report Shows Positive Economic Impact on States and Communities Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 3729 Released October 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to Delaware Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2923, H.R. 3553, H.R. 3689, H.R. 3980, S. 1132, and S. 3397 Released October 13 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Highlight the American Opportunity Tax Credit; Treasury Report Highlights Impact on College Students and Families (dated October 12; embargoed until October 13) Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady Travel to Ohio Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 946, H.R. 3219, H.R. 4543, H.R. 5341, H.R. 5390, H.R. 5450, and H.R. 6200 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Minnesota Released October 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Travel to Boston Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New York Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Carolina Released October 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Nation's Top Scientists and Innovators Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Host White House Science Fair Statement by the Press Secretary on the Social Security Administration's decision not to provide a cost of living adjustment and economic recovery payments Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1510 and S. 3196 Released October 18 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Host White House Science Fair (dated October 17; embargoed until October 18) Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Seattle, Washington Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medal of Honor Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 3802 Released October 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs Executive Order Renewing the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics Fact sheet: Improving Educational Opportunities and Outcomes for Latino Students Released October 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: Environmental Liabilities Settlement With GM Released October 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Rhode Island Statement by the Press Secretary on the National Economic Council's report on jobs and economic security for America's women (dated October 20; embargoed until October 21) Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Nebraska Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Wisconsin Text: Report: Jobs and Economic Security for America's Women (dated October 20; embargoed until October 21) Released October 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Fact sheet: How Small Businesses Can Benefit From the Small Business Jobs Act (dated October 24; embargoed until October 25) Advance text of remarks by Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Central Region Dennis B. Ross at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee national summit Released October 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Visit Charlottesville, VA Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Puerto Rico Released October 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs William Burns, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Fact sheet: Obama Administration Highlights Unprecedented Coordination Across Federal Government To Combat Violence Against Women Released October 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary Josh Earnest, Senior Director for Asian Affairs Jeff Bader, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the President's visit to Asia Released October 29 Transcript of press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Releases Report Outlining Benefits of Expensing Proposal in Encouraging Business Expansion, Hiring Now Statement by the Press Secretary on explosive devices found aboard flights bound for the U.S. Text: Statement by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan on Saudi Arabia's assistance in detecting and interdicting explosive devices aboard flights bound for the U.S. Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Austan D. Goolsbee on the advance estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2010 Released November 1 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, and Treasury Department Under Secretary for International Affairs Lael Brainard on the President's visit to Asia Statement by the Press Secretary on the hostage situation at a church in Baghdad, Iraq Released November 2 Statement by the Press Secretary on the planned execution of Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani in Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Released November 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released November 5 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to the U.S. Virgin Islands Released November 6 Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs William Burns, and Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs on the President's visit to India (dated November 5; released November 6) Fact sheet: Background on United States-India Economic Relationship  Fact sheet: The National Export Initiative: U.S.-India Transactions Fact sheet: Expo on Agriculture and Food Security Fact sheet: Expo on Democracy and Open Government Fact sheet: U.S.-India Economic and Trade Relationship: Indian Investment in the U.S. Released November 8 Fact sheet: U.S. & India: The Indispensable Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-India Cooperation in Agriculture—Partnership For An Evergreen Revolution Fact sheet: U.S.-India Strengthening Cooperation on Cybersecurity Fact sheet: Nuclear Security Fact sheet: Supporting Afghanistan's Development Fact sheet: Enhancing U.S.-India Cooperation on Education Fact sheet: U.S.-India Space Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-India Counterterrorism Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-India Economic and Financial Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-India Trade and Economic Cooperation Fact sheet: Deepening U.S.-India Strategic Ties Fact sheet: Securing the Air, Sea, and Space Domains Fact sheet: The U.S.-India CEO Forum Fact sheet: U.S.-India Partnership on Clean Energy, Energy Security, and Climate Change Fact sheet: U.S.-India Partnership on Export Controls and Non-Proliferation Fact sheet: U.S.-India Defense Cooperation Fact sheet: United States and India Announce Partnership on Open Government Released November 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Jeffrey A. Bader and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Fact sheet: The United States and Indonesia—Building a 21st Century Partnership Fact sheet: Higher Education Partnership With Indonesia Fact sheet: The IKAT-U.S. Partnership—Civil Societies Innovating Together Fact sheet: Indonesia and the Millennium Challenge Corporation Fact sheet: Expanding The U.S.-Indonesia Partnership On Climate Change And Clean Energy Fact sheet: Economic and Trade Cooperation with Indonesia Fact sheet: U.S. Response to Natural Disasters in Indonesia Fact sheet: Expanding U.S.-Indonesia Collaboration On Science & Technology Released November 10 Statement by the Deputy Press Secretary on the initial proposal by the Bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the terrorist attacks in Iraq Fact sheet: Indonesia: Follow-Up To The President's Cairo Speech (released November 9; embargoed until November 10) Advance text: President's remarks in Jakarta, Indonesia (released November 9; embargoed until November 10) Released November 11 Advance text: President's remarks at a Veterans' Day ceremony at the U.S. Army Garrison—Yongsan in Seoul, South Korea (released November 10; embargoed until November 11) Released November 12 Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: $528 Million Announced for a New Global Framework to Fund Innovative SME Finance Models Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: Sustainable External Imbalances and Orderly Global Adjustment Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: IMF Reform Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: U.S. Financial Reform and the G–20 Leaders' Agenda Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: Shared Commitment to Fighting Corruption Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: U.S. Global Development Policy and the G–20 Development Framework Fact sheet: G–20/Seoul: Energy Issues Released November 13 Fact sheet: New initiatives from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit Fact sheet: U.S.-Japan Cooperation on Reducing Nuclear Risks Released November 14 Text: Trans-Pacific Partnership: Progress Towards a Regional Agreement Text: The 18th APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting: The Yokohama Vision—Bogor and Beyond Text: The APEC Leaders' Growth Strategy Text: Leaders' Statement on the 2010 Bogor Goals Assessment Text: Pathways to a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP) Released November 15 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces 2010 White House Tribal Nations Conference Statement by the Press Secretary on voter registration in Sudan Released November 16 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by U.S. Ambassador to NATO Ivo H. Daalder, Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute, Senior Director for European Affairs Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the NATO and EU summits in Lisbon, Portugal Statement by the Press Secretary on the rescheduling of a bipartisan meeting with congressional leaders Text: Statement from the Vice President on the New START Treaty Released November 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs Executive Order To Implement Reform Recommendations of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Names Presidential Medal of Freedom Recipients Fact sheet: An Enduring Commitment to the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent Released November 18 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden to Visit Kokomo, IN Statement by the Press Secretary: CEA Releases New Quarterly Analysis on Job and Economic Impact of the Recovery Act Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the passage of a U.N. Resolution on Iran's human rights violations Released November 19 Transcript of a press briefing by U.S. Ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Ivo H. Daalder and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Text: Op-ed piece by the President for the International Herald Tribune: "Europe and America, Aligned for the Future" Released November 20 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland Fact sheet: President Obama's Participation in the NATO Summit Meetings in Lisbon Fact sheet: United States' Relationship With the European Union: An Enduring Partnership Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on Ukraine's Holodomor Remembrance Day Text: Transcript of statements by European Foreign Ministers in support of the new START Treaty Released November 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released November 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Welcomes New HIV Prevention Research Results Statement by the Press Secretary on the North Korean artillery shelling of the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong Released November 24 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 3774 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to the U.S. Virgin Islands Released November 28 Statement by the Press Secretary on the WikiLeaks web site posting Department of State documents concerning diplomatic relations with foreign governments Released November 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by White House Communications Director Dan Pfieffer and Chief Performance Officer and Office of Management and Budget Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey Zients on Federal employee issues Statement by the Press Secretary on Medicare payments to doctors Fact sheet: Cutting the Deficit by Freezing Federal Employee Pay Released November 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 5712, S. 1376, S. 3567, and S.J. Res. 40 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the elections in Egypt Released December 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: U.S. Government Mitigation Efforts in Light of the Recent Unlawful Disclosure of Classified Information Released December 2 Statement by the Press Secretary: New CEA Report Underscores Urgent Need to Extend Unemployment Benefits Statement by the Press Secretary on middle class tax cuts Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the elections in Cote d'Ivoire Released December 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan Douglas E. Lute and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the President's visit to Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Nine Pardons Text: Statements of Support for the U.S.-Korea Trade Agreement Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Austan Goolsbee on the employment situation in November Fact sheet: The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement: More American Jobs, Faster Economic Recovery Through Exports Fact sheet: Economic Value of the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement: More American Exports, More American Jobs Fact sheet: Increasing U.S. Auto Exports and Growing U.S. Auto Jobs Through the U.S.-Korea Trade Agreement Released December 4 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 101 Transcript of a weekly address by Vice President Joe Biden (released December 3; embargoed until December 4) Text: Statements by Members of Congress, trade groups, and corporations in support of the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement Released December 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Text: Statement by Deputy National Security Council Spokesman Benjamin Chang on the meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara of Japan, and Foreign Minister Kim Sung-hwan of South Korea Released December 7 Text: Statements by economists, advocacy groups, pundits, and editorial boards in support of the framework agreement for middle class tax cuts and unemployment insurance Released December 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers, and White House Senior Adviser David Axelrod Text: Interested Parties Memo on the Impact of the Tax Agreement on Economic Expansion and Job Growth Released December 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces First Steps Toward Implementation of New U.S. Export Control System Statement by the Press Secretary: New Biden Email Features Goolsbee "White Board" Video on Middle Class Tax Cuts, Unemployment Insurance and Jobs Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate action on the "Development Relief and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act" Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1722, H.R. 5283, H.R. 5566, and S. 3689 Text: More Economic Reviews on the Middle Class Tax Cuts Framework's Impact on Jobs and Growth Released December 10 Statement by the Press Secretary: The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010: Win for Women, Mothers and Working Families Statement by the Press Secretary on the reauthorization of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act and the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act Text: Statement by National Economic Council Deputy Director Jason Furman: Victories For Working Families and Jobs in the Agreement on Tax Cuts and Unemployment Insurance Released December 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released December 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Members of the White House Council for Community Solutions Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4387, H.R. 5651, H.R. 5706, H.R. 5773, H.R. 5758, H.R. 6162, H.R. 6166, H.R. 6237, H.R. 6387, S. 1338, S. 1421, and S. 3250 Text of an op-ed piece by Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius titled "Health Reform Will Survive Its Legal Fight" Released December 15 Statement by the Press Secretary on the new START Treaty Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 6118, H.R. 4994, and S. 2847 Released December 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, and Gen. James E. Cartwright, USMC, Vice Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of the "Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010" Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that Brooke Anderson will serve as chief of staff and counselor for the national security team Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on an attack on the village of Khor Abeche in southern Darfur Text: Overview of the Afghanistan and Pakistan Annual Review Released December 17 Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S.-EU Transatlantic Economic Council meetings Text: U.S.-EU Transatlantic Economic Council Joint Statement Text: Scientific Integrity: Fueling Innovation, Building Public Trust Released December 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate passage of legislation repealing the Department of Defense's "don't ask, don't tell" policy Statements by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2480, H.R. 3237, H.R. 6184, H.R. 6399, H.J. Res. 105, S. 3789, and S. 3987 Released December 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on Belarusian elections and political violence Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 3817 Released December 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the adoption of the U.S. sponsored amendment to ensure that sexual orientation remains covered by the U.N. resolution on extrajudicial, summary, and arbitrary execution Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arizona Released December 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Hu Jintao of China Statements by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1061, H.R. 2941, H.R. 3082, H.R. 4337, H.R. 5591, H.R. 6198, H.R. 6278, H.R. 6473, H.R. 6516, S. 30, S. 1275, S. 1405, S. 1448, S. 1609, S. 1774, S. 2906, S. 3199, S. 3794, S. 3860, S. 3984, S. 3998, S. 4005, and S. 4010 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Vermont Fact sheet: Security Enhancements Text: Statement by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on security enhancements during the holiday season Released December 27 Statement by the Press Secretary on a Russian court decision to convict businessmen Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedev Released December 29 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 6398, H.R. 6517, S. 3386, and S. 4058  