Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Statement on the Oil Spill in the Gulf of Mexico September 19, 2010 Today we achieved an important milestone in our response to the BP oil spill, the final termination of the damaged well that sat deep under the Gulf of Mexico. I commend Admiral Thad Allen, Secretaries Salazar, Chu, Napolitano, Administrators Jackson and Lubchenco, Carol Browner, the Federal science and engineering teams, and the thousands of men and women who worked around the clock to respond to this crisis and ultimately complete this challenging but critical step to ensure that the well has stopped leaking forever. However, while we have seen a diminished need for our massive response that encompassed more than 40,000 people, 7,000 vessels, and the coordination of dozens of Federal, State, and local agencies and other partners, we also remain committed to doing everything possible to make sure the Gulf Coast recovers fully from this disaster. This road will not be easy, but we will continue to work closely with the people of the Gulf to rebuild their livelihoods and restore the environment that supports them. My administration will see our communities, our businesses, and our fragile ecosystems through this difficult time. Categories: Statements by the President : Gulf of Mexico :: Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Names: Allen, Thad W.; Browner, Carol M.; Chu, Steven; Jackson, Lisa P.; Lubchenco, Jane; Napolitano, Janet A.; Salazar, Kenneth L. Subjects: Commerce, Department of : Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National; Energy : BP p.l.c.; Energy, Department of : Secretary; Environmental Protection Agency : Administrator; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Economic effects and recovery efforts; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Environmental effects and cleanup efforts; Homeland Security, Department of : Coast Guard, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Secretary; Interior, Department of the : Secretary; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Energy and Climate Change. DCPD Number: DCPD201000774. 