Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Statement on House of Representatives Passage of Legislation Repealing the Department of Defense's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" Policy December 15, 2010 I applaud the House for passing, with bipartisan support, the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010." Legislative repeal is supported by the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The process contained in this legislation allows for a smooth and responsible repeal of "don't ask, don't tell" in a way that maintains good order and discipline in our military ranks. Indeed, all of the service chiefs have said that when this law is changed, they will implement an orderly transition effectively and efficiently. As the comprehensive study by the Department of Defense clearly shows, we can move to a new policy in a responsible manner that ensures our military strength and our national security. I particularly want to thank Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Congressman Patrick Murphy for their leadership on this issue. I have consistently called for the repeal of this law. Moving forward with the repeal is not only the right thing to do, it will also give our military the clarity and certainty it deserves. We must ensure that Americans who are willing to risk their lives for their country are treated fairly and equally by their country. NOTE: The statement referred to H.R. 2965. The Office of the Press Secretary also released a Spanish language version of this statement. Categories: Statements by the President : "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, House of Representatives passage. Names: Gates, Robert M.; Hoyer, Steny H.; Mullen, Michael G.; Murphy, Patrick; Pelosi, Nancy. Subjects: Armed Forces, U.S. : "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, repeal; Congress : House of Representatives :: Majority leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Defense, Department of : "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, report; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Legislation, proposed : "Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010". DCPD Number: DCPD201001074. 