Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Statement on Congressional Passage of Tribal Law and Order Legislation July 21, 2010 Today's passage of the "Tribal Law and Order Act" is an important step to help the Federal Government better address the unique public safety challenges that confront tribal communities. The fact is, American Indians and Alaska Natives are victimized by violent crime at far higher rates than Americans as a whole. Native communities have seen increased gang and drug activity, with some tribes experiencing violent crime rates at more than 10 times the national average. And one in three Native women will be the victim of rape in her lifetime.  The Federal Government's relationship with tribal governments, its obligations under treaty and law, and our values as a nation require that we do more to improve public safety in tribal communities. And this act will help us achieve that. It will strengthen the relationship between the Federal Government and tribal governments. It will improve our ability to work with tribal communities in the investigation and prosecution of crime, and it authorizes resources for tribes to fight crime more effectively. While many members helped pass this bill, I especially want to applaud Senators Dorgan, Barrasso, and Kyl and Representatives Herseth Sandlin, Kildee, Cole, Conyers, Scott, Rahall, Simpson, and Pastor for their leadership on this issue. I look forward to signing the act into law. NOTE: The statement referred to H.R. 725. Categories: Statements by the President : Tribal law and order legislation, congressional passage. Names: Barrasso, John A.; Cole, Tom; Conyers, John, Jr.; Dorgan, Byron L.; Herseth Sandlin, Stephanie; Kildee, Dale E.; Kyl, Jon L.; Pastor, Edward Lopez; Rahall, Nick J., II; Scott, Robert Cortez; Simpson, Michael K. Subjects: American Indians and Alaska Natives : Reservations :: Sexual assault rate; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Reservations :: Violent crime rate; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Tribal law enforcement agencies, Federal Government assistance; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Tribal nations, relations with the Federal Government. DCPD Number: DCPD201000618. 