Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Letter to Congressional Leaders on Transmitting Designations Under the Kingpin Act June 1, 2010 Dear__________: This report to the Congress, under section 804(a) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, 21 U.S.C. 1901–1908 (the "Kingpin Act"), transmits my designations of the following five foreign individuals as appropriate for sanctions under the Kingpin Act and reports my direction of sanctions against them under the Act:  Haji Agha Jan Alizai (Afghanistan)  Haji Bando (Afghanistan)  Ousmane Conte (Guinea)  Sergio Enrique Villarreal Barragan (Mexico)  Mohamed Bachir Suleman (Mozambique)  Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA NOTE: Identical letters were sent to Carl Levin, chairman, and John McCain, ranking member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; Max S. Baucus, chairman, and Charles E. Grassley, ranking member, Senate Committee on Finance; John F. Kerry, chairman, and Richard G. Lugar, ranking member, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations; Patrick J. Leahy, chairman, and Jefferson B. Sessions III, ranking member, Senate Committee on the Judiciary; Dianne Feinstein, chair, and Christopher S. Bond, vice chairman, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence;  Isaac N. "Ike" Skelton IV, chairman, and Howard P. "Buck" McKeon, ranking member, House Committee on Armed Services; Howard L. Berman, chairman, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, ranking member, House Committee on Foreign Affairs; John Conyers, Jr., chairman, and Lamar S. Smith, ranking member, House Committee on the Judiciary; Sander M. Levin, acting chairman, and David L. Camp, ranking member, House Committee on Ways and Means; and Silvestre Reyes, chairman, and Peter Hoekstra, ranking member, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Categories: Communications to Congress : Kingpin Act, letter transmitting designations. Names: Alizai, Haji Agha Jan; Bando, Haji; Conte, Ousmane; Suleman, Mohamed Bachir; Villarreal Barragan, Sergio Enrique. Subjects: Drug abuse and trafficking : Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act; Drug abuse and trafficking : Foreign narcotics traffickers. DCPD Number: DCPD201000444. 