Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2010 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 1 In the morning, in Kailua, HI, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 2 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing.  January 3 In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. January 4 In the afternoon, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan to discuss the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities and counterterrorism efforts. January 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they had an economic briefing. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with Federal agency and department heads and national security advisers to discuss the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities, intelligence sharing improvements, and counterterrorism efforts. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with House of Representatives and Senate Democratic leaders. January 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Senators Christopher J. Dodd and Byron L. Dorgan to discuss their decisions to not seek reelection. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, House Committee on Energy and Commerce Chairman Henry A. Waxman, House Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Charles B. Rangel, House Committee on Education and Labor Chairman George Miller, and House Committee on Rules Chairman Louise McIntosh Slaughter. January 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with former President William J. Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Senators Max S. Baucus and Christopher J. Dodd. January 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. January 9 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing.  January 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with labor leaders. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, Deputy Secretary of Defense William J. Lynn III, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and combatant commanders. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a dinner for Secretary Gates and his wife Becky, Deputy Secretary Lynn and his wife Mary Murphy, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and combatant commanders and their spouses, and six wounded U.S. military personnel. January 12 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Wilmington, DE, where they attended funeral services for Catherine E. "Jean" Finnegan Biden, mother of Vice President Joe Biden. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC.  Later, in the Oval Office, he met with the U.S. Ladies Professional Golf Association team. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later in the afternoon, the President was informed of the earthquake in Haiti. In the evening, national security staff members briefed the President on the situation in Haiti and disaster response and relief efforts. January 13 In the morning, the President received several updates from National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and the Department of Homeland Security National Operations Center on the situation in Haiti and disaster response, recovery, and relief efforts following the January 12 earthquake. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. Later in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Rajiv J. Shah to discuss disaster response and recovery efforts in Haiti. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden met with the House of Representatives and Senate Democratic leadership. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth H. Merten, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada, President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico, and President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile to discuss international disaster response, recovery, and relief efforts in Haiti and to express his condolences to Secretary-General Ban and President Lula for United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti personnel killed during the earthquake.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with former President George W. Bush to ask him if he would help former President William J. Clinton in coordinating long-term relief, recovery, and fundraising efforts for Haiti. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Biden met with Government and military officials to discuss U.S. disaster response efforts in Haiti.  January 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he joined in a meeting between Vice President Biden and Vice President Adil Abd Al-Mahdi of Iraq. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Leonel Fernandez Reyna of the Dominican Republic to thank him for his nation's help in evacuating U.S. citizens from Haiti after the January 12 earthquake and for allowing his nation to act as a staging area for rescue teams and relief supplies headed to Haiti and to hear President Fernandez's assessment of the situation in Haiti after his visit to Port au Prince. January 15 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Rene Garcia Preval of Haiti to discuss the situation in Haiti and disaster response, recovery, and relief efforts following the January 12 earthquake. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President had an economic briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. January 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with former Presidents William J. Clinton and George W. Bush to discuss coordinating long-term relief, recovery, and fundraising efforts for Haiti.  January 17 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. January 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, at So Others Might Eat (SOME) soup kitchen, he, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and Mrs. Obama's mother, Marian Robinson, served lunch and visited with guests and volunteers. In the afternoon, at American Red Cross headquarters, the President and Mrs. Obama visited the disaster operations center, where they met with and made remarks to staff members and volunteers.  January 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Falls Church, VA, where, at Graham Road Elementary School, he and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan met with sixth grade students. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator George V. Voinovich. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Christopher J. Dodd. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Senator-elect Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts to congratulate him on his election victory and to discuss economic strengthening efforts. He then had a telephone conversation with Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley to thank her for running for the U.S. Senate. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey R. Moreland to be Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors. The President announced his intention to nominate Dana K. Bilyeu and Michael D. Kennedy to be members of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. The President announced his intention to nominate JoAnn Lynn Balzer and Cynthia Chavez Lamar to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Daryl J. Boness to be chairman of the Marine Mammal Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael F. Tillman to be a member of the Marine Mammal Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Museum and Library Services Board and the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities: John Coppola; Carla D. Hayden; Winston Tabb; and Robert Wedgeworth. The President announced his intention to nominate Hernan D. Vera to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to appoint Steven Gunderson as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced that he has appointed Edward Drusina as U.S. Commissioner of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico. January 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in an interview with George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine G. Hammack to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment. The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore Sedgwick to be Ambassador to Slovakia. The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis P. Walsh to be Chairman of the Special Panel on Appeals. The President announced his intention to nominate Marsha J. Rabiteau to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl F. Weener to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie A. Finley to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated R. Booth Goodwin II to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated David J. Hale to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Kentucky. The President announced that he has nominated Kerry B. Harvey to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. The President announced that he has nominated Loretta E. Lynch to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Jon E. DeGuilio to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana. The President announced that he has nominated Audrey Goldstein Fleissig to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Lucy Haeran Koh to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Jane E. Magnus-Stinson and Tanya Walton Pratt to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. The President announced that he has nominated Christopher T. Hoye to be U.S. marshal for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has nominated Gervin Kazumi Miyamoto to be U.S. marshal for the District of Hawaii. The President announced that he has nominated Peter C. Munoz to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Michigan. The President announced that he has nominated Kelly M. Nesbit to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Brian T. Underwood to be U.S. marshal for the District of Idaho. January 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board Chairman Paul A. Volcker. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. January 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Elyria, OH, where he toured EMC Precision Machining and met with employees. In the afternoon, at Smitty's Place bar and restaurant, the President had lunch and visited with patrons. Then, at Lorain County Community College, he toured the wind turbine and manufacturing lab facilities and the Nord Advanced Technologies Center. Later, at Riddell sporting goods main office and factory, he toured the factory and met with employees. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. January 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  January 24 The President declared an emergency in Arizona and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 20 and continuing. January 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the State Dining Room, he participated in an interview with Diane Sawyer of ABC's "World News with Diane Sawyer." Then, in  Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Kurdistan  Regional Government President Masoud Barzani.  The President announced his intention to nominate Elisabeth A. Hagen to be Under Secretary for Food Safety at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Michele M. Leonhart to be Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration. January 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had lunch with business leaders. He then had a telephone conversation with head coach John Calipari and members of the University of Kentucky men's basketball team to thank them for raising over $1 million to help with the earthquake relief efforts in Haiti. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Krakow, Poland, to attend the commemoration of the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz on January 27: Julius M. Genachowski (head of delegation); Lee A. Feinstein; Hannah Rosenthal; Susan S. Sher; Roman R. Kent; Charlene P. Schiff; and Edwarda Sternberg-Powidzki. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Tegucigalpa, Honduras, to attend the inauguration of Porfirio Lobo Sosa as President of Honduras on January 27: Arturo A. Valenzuela (head of delegation); Hugo Llorens; Jose W. Fernandez; and Craig A. Kelly. January 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to thank him for his work and leadership during new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) negotiations and discuss Russia-U.S. relations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. January 28 In the morning, the President traveled to MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, FL, arriving in the afternoon, where he was joined by Vice President Joe Biden. Later in the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden toured a maintenance hangar and met with service members working on a KC–135 Stratotanker. Later, they traveled to the University of Tampa Bob Martinez Sports Center. He then returned to Washington, DC. January 29 In the morning, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with members of the Cabinet. Later, he traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he toured Chesapeake Machine Company. He then traveled to the Renaissance Baltimore Harborplace Hotel. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry Robinson to be Assistant Secretary for Conservation and Management at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey A. Lane to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul S. Miller and Dennis J. Toner to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Patricia Wilson Smoot to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Lana Pollack to be a Commissioner of the International Joint Commission at the Department of State. January 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with former President George H.W. Bush. In the afternoon, at the Verizon Center, the President and Vice President Joe Biden attended a Georgetown University-Duke University men's basketball game, and during the second half, he talked with CBS announcers Clark Kellogg and Verne Lundquist and provided some television commentary of the game. The President declared an emergency in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 28 and continuing. February 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss Middle East peace efforts, U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell's latest trip to the Middle East, and Jordan-U.S. relations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Sebastian Pinera of Chile to congratulate him on his January 17 election victory and discuss Chile-U.S. relations. He then joined in a meeting between Vice President Joe Biden and Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi of Iraq. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. February 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Nashua, NH, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President toured ARC Energy LLC. He then traveled to Nashua High School North. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding from December 18 through 25. February 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden led a Cabinet-level exercise to discuss preparedness, crisis response, and incident management procedures for the upcoming 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympic Games. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Illinois Democratic senatorial candidate Alexi Giannoulis and Governor Patrick J. Quinn III of Illinois to congratulate them on their primary election victories. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House: Pamela Bass-Bookey; Lonnie Bunch; Robert G. Clark; Thelma Golden; Richard H. Jenrette; Lew Manilow; Richard C. Nylander; Linda Johnson Rice; Paul Schimmel; Michael S. Smith; Beth White; and John Wilmerding. February 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had lunch with business leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senator Richard J. Durbin, and Representative Steny H. Hoyer. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard M. Lobo to be Director of the International Broadcasting Bureau. The President announced his intention to nominate Lowell Junkins to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Sara L. Faivre-Davis and Myles Watts to be members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. The President announced that he has nominated David Fein to be U.S. attorney for the District of Connecticut. The President announced that he has nominated Timothy Q. Purdon to be U.S. attorney for the District of North Dakota. The President announced that he has nominated Loren Carl to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Kentucky. The President announced that he has nominated Kerry Forestal to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Indiana. The President announced that he has nominated Gerald S. Holt to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Clifton Massanelli to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Arkansas. The President announced that he has nominated Scott Parker to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Elizabeth Erny Foote to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Mark A. Goldsmith to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The President announced that he has nominated Marc Thomas Treadwell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia. The President announced that he has nominated Josephine Staton Tucker to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced his intention to appoint James H. Douglas and Christine O. Gregoire as Cochairs of the Council of Governors. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Council of Governors: Janice K. Brewer; Luis G. Fortuno; C. Bradford Henry; Robert F. McDonnell; Jeremiah W. "Jay" Nixon; Martin J. O'Malley; Beverly Eaves Perdue; and M. Michael Rounds. February 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Langley, VA. He then returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Lanham, MD. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the East Room, he met with the 2009 Little League World Series champion Park View Little League team of Chula Vista, CA. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland to the White House on March 17. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities: Chuck Close; Fred Goldring; Sheila Johnson; Pamela Joyner; Jhumpa Lahiri; and Ken Solomon. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a snowstorm on December 19 and 20. February 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  February 7 In the evening, the President participated in an interview with Katie Couric of the "CBS Evening News with Katie Couric." Later, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a Super Bowl party for Members of Congress, Cabinet members, and U.S. military personnel wounded in Afghanistan and Iraq and their families. February 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees to congratulate him on the team's Super Bowl victory. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Secretary of the Interior Kenneth L. Salazar. February 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. February 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with African American leaders to discuss the economy and the current jobs situation. February 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Viktor Yanukovych of Ukraine to congratulate him on his February 7 election victory and discuss Ukraine-U.S. relations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President-elect Laura Chinchilla of Costa Rica to congratulate her on her February 7 election victory and discuss Costa Rica-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he signed the 2010 Economic Report of the President. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with the 2009 and 2010 March of Dimes ambassadors, Katelyn Hall and Joshua Hoffman. February 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with former President Nelson R. Mandela of South Africa to congratulate him on the 20th anniversary of his release from prison. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. He then met with his senior advisers.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din al-Hariri of Lebanon. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President taped a Lunar New Year's message for later broadcast. February 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced that he has appointed Rashad Hussain as U.S. Special Envoy to the Organisation of the Islamic Conference.  February 14 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Camp David, MD. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama and their daughters returned to Washington, DC.  February 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. February 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Lanham, MD, where he toured a jobs training center at the IBEW Local 26 headquarters. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun L.S. Donovan. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Croatia to attend the inauguration of President-elect Ivo Josipovic on February 18: Jacob J. Lew (head of delegation); and James B. Foley. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Stephen Ford to be Ambassador to Syria. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Andrew Hatfield to be Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement the Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from December 18 through 20, 2009. February 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with King Juan Carlos I of Spain. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with General Raymond T. Odierno, USA, commanding general, U.S. Forces—Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Christopher R. Hill. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers.  February 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform Cochairs, Erskine B. Bowles and Alan Simpson. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with international human rights activists. Later in the morning, in the Map Room, the President met with Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Denver, CO. While en route aboard Air Force One, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan briefed him on the plane crash at an IRS building in Austin, TX.  In the evening, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV, where, at a private residence, he attended and made remarks at a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. February 19 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from December 18 through 20, 2009. February 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. February 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Governor Arnold A. Schwarzenegger of California. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. February 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President had dinner with business leaders. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Kiev, Ukraine, to attend the inauguration of President-elect Viktor Yanukovych on February 25: James L. Jones, Jr. (head of delegation); John F. Tefft; Melanne Verveer; Philip H. Gordon; and Kristina A. Kvien. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen T. Ayers to be Architect of the Capitol. The President announced his intention to nominate Eduardo M. Ochoa to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Board for Education Sciences at the Department of Education: Deborah Loewenberg Ball; Adam Gamoran; Bridget Terry Long; and Margaret R. "Peggy" McLeod. February 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Commerce Gary F. Locke. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with former Vice President Dick Cheney to wish him well in his recovery after suffering a heart attack earlier in the week. The President announced that he has nominated Goodwin Hon Liu to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Robert N. Chatigny to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Sharon Johnson Coleman and Gary Scott Feinerman to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated William J. Martinez to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has nominated John Foster to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of West Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Paul Ward to be U.S. marshal for the District of North Dakota. The President announced that he has nominated Gary M. Gaskins to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of West Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Laura E. Duffy to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Wifredo A. Ferrer to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Alicia Limtiaco to be U.S. attorney for the Districts of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. The President announced that he has nominated John B. Stevens, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Texas. February 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Montevideo, Uruguay, to attend the inauguration of President-elect Jose Mujica on March 1: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); David D. Nelson; and Carmen Lomellin. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations: Carol A. Bonosaro; William Dougan; Michael B. Filler; John Gage; David Holway; Gregory Junemann; Colleen M. Kelley; H.T. Nguyen; and Darryl Perkinson. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on December 24 and 25. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorm on December 22 through January 8. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on December 23 through 27. February 26 In the morning, Vice President Joe Biden presented the Middle Class Task Force Annual Report to the President. Later, he had a video teleconference with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Yeoryios Papandreou of Greece to the White House on March 9. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. McCord to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller). The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine M. Gehl and Michael J. Warren to be members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint William R. Harvey as Chairman of the President's Board of Advisers on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Board of Advisers on Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Lawrence S. Bacow; Evelynn M. Hammonds; Beverly Wade Hogan; Edward Lewis; Ronald Mason, Jr.; Valerie Mosley; Willie Pearson, Jr.; Beverly Daniel Tatum; Kenneth Tolson; and David Wilson. The President announced his intention to appoint David Duong and Marjorie Margolies as members of the Vietnam Education Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Bruce Bastian; Colleen Bell; Charles A. Clarkson; Lester Coney; Sylvia Davis; Jill Goldman; Howard Gottlieb; Victor J. Herlinsky, Jr.; Kaki Hockersmith; Sharon Hoffman; Candace Bond McKeever; Robert Monks; Wendy Riva; Cari Sacks; and Amy K. Singh. The President announced that he has named the following individuals as members of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform: David Cote; Ann Fudge; Alice Rivlin; and Andy Stern. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by a severe winter storm on January 20 through 25. February 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he had a conference call with Deputy National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Rajiv Shah, White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel, and other Cabinet officials to discuss the earthquake in Chile and the tsunami warnings for Hawaii, Guam, and American Samoa. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the earthquake, commend her on the Chilean Government's disaster response efforts, and offer U.S. assistance. February 28 In the morning, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at the National Naval Medical Center, he had his annual physical examination and met with U.S. military personnel wounded in Afghanistan and Iraq. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. March 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office he had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Transportation Ray H. LaHood. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael C. Camunez to be Assistant Secretary for Market Access and Compliance at the Department of Commerce. March 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Savannah, GA. In the afternoon, the President toured Savannah Technical College. Later, he had lunch and visited with patrons at Mrs. Wilkes' Dining Room. He then toured Chatham Steel Corporation.  Later, the President toured Meddin Studios. He then returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate James L. Taylor to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to appoint Woody N. Peterson as a Commissioner on the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on December 18 through 20. March 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Disabled American Veterans National Commander Roberto Barrera. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with American Legion Commander Clarence Hill. Then, in the Blue Room, he hosted a reception for Members of Congress to thank them for their efforts to pass statutory pay-as-you-go legislation. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abdullah Gul of Turkey. The President announced that he has nominated Scott M. Matheson, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Kenneth J. Gonzales to be U.S. attorney for the District of New Mexico. The President announced that he has nominated Michael C. Ormsby to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Washington. The President announced that he has nominated Willie R. Stafford to be U.S. marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement the District's recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on December 18 through 20. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room he stopped by a meeting between Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and representatives from the Nation's largest health insurance companies. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a bill signing ceremony for H.R. 2935, the Travel Promotion Act of 2009. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Members of the House of Representatives. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with the leaders of the New Democrat Coalition. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Charles E. Schumer. March 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had an economic briefing. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, where he toured OPOWER. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Rene Garcia Preval of Haiti to the White House on March 10. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Santiago, Chile, to attend the inauguration of President-elect Sebastian Pinera  Echenique of Chile on March 11: James L. Jones, Jr. (head of delegation); Paul E. Simons; and Russell C. Crandall. The President announced his intention to nominate David K. Mineta to be Deputy Director for Demand Reduction at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Recovery Independent Advisory Panel: Steven Koch; Chris Sale; Malcolm K. Sparrow; and Edward Tufte. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on January 28 through 30. March 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  March 8 In the morning, the President traveled to Glenside, PA.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Harding to be Assistant Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security/Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Cheryl A. LaFleur and Philip D. Moeller to be Commissioners of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Lawrence J. Pijeaux, Jr., to be a member of the National Museum and Library Sciences Board. The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms, flooding, and debris and mud flows from January 17 to February 6.  March 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with business leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Prime Minister Yeoryios Papandreou of Greece. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he greeted and thanked members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. Later in the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President met with a bipartisan group of Senators to discuss energy policy. Later, in the East Room, the President and Prime Minister Papandreou attended a reception honoring Greek Independence Day. The President announced his intention to nominate Mimi E. Alemayehou to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth McGrath to be Deputy Chief Management Officer at the Department of Defense. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on December 23 through 27. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorms from December 22 to January 8. March 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to St. Louis, MO. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has nominated Raymond J. Lohier, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Thomas E. Delahanty II to be U.S. attorney for the District of Maine. The President announced that he has nominated Wendy J. Olson to be U.S. attorney for the District of Idaho. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on January 20 through 26. March 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with grassroots leaders of the comprehensive immigration reform movement. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with members of the Congressional Black Caucus. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Senators Charles E. Schumer and Lindsey O. Graham to discuss immigration reform legislation. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, in the White House Movie Theater, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a screening of the HBO series "The Pacific." In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President met with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The President announced his intention to appoint W. James McNerney, Jr., as Chair of the President's Export Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Ursula M. Burns as Vice Chair of the President's Export Council. March 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President met with the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. March 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  March 14 The President declared an emergency in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area threatened by flooding beginning on February 26 and continuing. March 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Strongsville, OH, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. March 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Democratic National Committee Chairman Timothy M. Kaine. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. March 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in an interview with Bret Baier of FOX News. The President announced that he has nominated Leonard P. Stark to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The President announced that he has nominated Amy Totenberg to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. March 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia to inform him that he was postponing his trip to Indonesia.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia to inform him that he was postponing his trip to Australia.  The President declared a major disaster in Arizona and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding on January 18 through 22. March 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Fairfax, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with Vice President Biden. March 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  March 21 In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with former President William J, Clinton to discuss the upcoming House of Representatives vote on health care reform legislation. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he, Vice President Joe Biden, and White House staff members and advisers watched coverage of the House of Representatives vote on health care reform legislation. March 22 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico, who congratulated him on the passage of health care reform legislation, and to discuss Mexico-U.S. relations and counternarcotics efforts. Later, he had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, who congratulated him on the passage of health care reform legislation, and to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to nominate Rafael Moure-Eraso to be Chairperson of the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark A. Griffon to be a member of the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. "Skipp" Orr to be U.S. Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Carl Wieman to be Associate Director for Science at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. March 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President again met with Prime Minister Netanyahu. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on February 5 and 6. March 24 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with Senators John F. Kerry and Richard G. Lugar to discuss the ongoing consultations regarding the expansion of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START). Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Christopher J. Dodd and Representative Barney Frank to discuss financial regulatory reform. Later in the morning, the President had a video teleconference with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement the District's recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorms from February 5 through 11. March 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Iowa City, IA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President visited Prairie Lights Books. He then returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has nominated Robert R. Almonte to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Dallas S. Neville to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Wisconsin. The President announced that he has nominated Frank Leon-Guerrero to be U.S. marshal for the Districts of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. The President announced that he has nominated Mary H. Murguia to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Melinda L. Haag to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Jerry E. Martin to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated James A. Lewis to be U.S. attorney for the Central District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated Todd E. Edelman and Judith Anne Smith to be associate judges in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.  The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and flooding from February 23 to March 2. March 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia, in which they reached an agreement on the expansion of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) and agreed to a meeting in Prague, Czech Republic, on April 8 to sign the treaty. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The President announced his intention to nominate Steve A. Linick to be Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas Hicks to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. March 27 In the evening, the President traveled to Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan, arriving the following evening.  The President announced his intention to recess appoint Jeffrey Goldstein as Under Secretary for Domestic Finance at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Michael F. Mundaca as Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Eric L. Hirschhorn as Under Secretary for Export Administration and head of the Bureau of Industry and Security at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Michael Punke as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative—Geneva Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Francisco J. Sanchez as Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Islam A. Siddiqui as Chief Agricultural Negotiator at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Alan D. Bersin as Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Jill Long Thompson as a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Rafael Borras as Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Craig Becker and Mark G. Pearce as members of the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Jacqueline A. Berrien as Chair of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Chai R. Feldblum and Victoria A. Lipnic as Commissioners of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to recess appoint P. David Lopez as General Counsel of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. March 28 Later in the evening, the President traveled to Kabul, Afghanistan, where, at the Presidential Palace, he met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Later, he met with President Karzai and his Cabinet. He then had dinner with President Karzai and his Cabinet.  Later in the evening, the President returned to Bagram Airfield. Later, he met with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, and U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry.  March 29 In the morning, the President visited a medical clinic, where he met with wounded U.S. military personnel. Then, at Dragon Mess Hall, he met with U.S. military personnel. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Rose Garden and the Colonnade, the President participated in an interview with Matt Lauer of NBC's "Today" show. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to offer his condolences for the loss of life and injuries due to the terrorist attack in Moscow. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama held a Seder to mark the beginning of Passover. The President announced his intention to nominate Teresa Takai to be Assistant Secretary for Networks and Information Integration at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate S. Leslie Ireland to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of the Treasury. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides beginning on March 12 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 12 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from February 23 to March 3. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 12 and continuing. March 30 Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. He then traveled to Alexandria, VA.  Later in the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. In the evening, in the Private Residence, the President and Mrs. Obama had dinner with President Sarkozy and his wife Carla Bruni-Sarkozy. The President declared an emergency in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 12 and continuing. March 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the family of farm labor and civil rights leader Cesar E. Chavez and Arturo S. Rodriguez, president, and Dolores Huerta, cofounder, United Farm Workers of America and signed a proclamation designating March 31 as Cesar Chavez Day. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to offer his support following the sinking of the South Korean Navy patrol ship Cheonan on March 26 and to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the sinking of the ship and the ensuing rescue efforts, and to discuss the upcoming Global Nuclear Security Summit.   The President declared a major disaster in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorms from February 5 through 11. April 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Portland, ME. Later, he traveled to Framingham, MA, where, at the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency, he was briefed by Governor Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts and local officials on the flooding in the Northeast and disaster response efforts. He then met with workers and volunteers coordinating the response efforts. In the evening, the President traveled to Boston, MA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Hu Jintao of China to discuss the upcoming Global Nuclear Security Summit and China-U.S. relations.  April 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Charlotte, NC.  In the afternoon, the President toured Celgard, LLC's manufacturing facilities. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. April 3 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. April 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, on the South Lawn, he read "Green Eggs and Ham" to children participating in the White House Easter egg roll. Then, at the White House basketball and tennis courts, he played basketball with children and visited with them and their parents. In the afternoon, at Nationals Park, the President threw out the ceremonial first pitch to open the game between the Washington Nationals and Philadelphia Phillies. He then watched a portion of the game.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Joseph Manchin III of West Virginia to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the Upper Big Branch mine explosion and offered Federal assistance in ongoing rescue operations. April 6 In the morning, the President met with African American religious leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing. Then, in the Private Dining Room, they had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with head coach Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University men's basketball team to congratulate him on the team's April 5 NCAA championship. He then had a telephone conversation with head coach Brad Stevens and members of the Butler University men's basketball team to congratulate them on their season and their performance in the NCAA championship game against Duke. Later, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, the President hosted a screening of the documentary film "Nuclear Tipping Point." The President announced his intention to appoint Marina C. McCarthy as Chair of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars: Jose Miguel Amaya; Michael A. Caplin; Martha A. Darling; I. King Jordan; Colin Kippen; Yvette Lewis; Reginald Lewis; Sheldon Pang; Srinija Srinivasan; Donald M. Stewart; and Cynthia A. Telles. April 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with head coach Geno Auriemma and members of the University of Connecticut women's basketball team to congratulate them on their April 6 NCAA championship and back-to-back undefeated seasons. He also had a telephone conversation with the family of coal miners who were killed in the Upper Big Branch Mine explosion on April 5. In the evening, the President traveled to Prague, Czech Republic, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues: Lonnie Ali; Anita L. Allen; Barbara Atkinson; Nita A. Farahany; Alexander G. Garza; Christine Grady; Stephen L. Hauser; Raju Kucherlapati; Nelson Michael; and Daniel Sulmasy. April 8 Later in the morning, upon arrival at Prague Ruzyne Airport, the President traveled to Prague Castle, where he participated in an arrival ceremony with President Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic. He then participated in a photograph with President Klaus and President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Hilton Prague hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where he hosted a dinner for Prime Minister Boyko Borissov of Bulgaria, Bulgaria's newly appointed Ambassador to the U.S. Elena B. Poptodorova, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor of Croatia, President Vaclav Klaus and Prime Minister Jan Fischer of the Czech Republic, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia, Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai of Hungary, President Valdis Zatlers of Latvia, Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius of Lithuania, Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland, President Traian Basescu of Romania, Prime Minister Robert Fico of Slovakia, and Prime Minister Borut Pahor of Slovenia. Later, he returned to the Hilton Prague hotel. April 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Prague Castle, where he had breakfast and met with President Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Supreme Court Associate Justice John P. Stevens after he announced his retirement from the Court. April 10 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland to express his condolences for the deaths of President Lech Kaczynski and First Lady Maria Kaczynska of Poland and other Polish officials and military officers in a plane crash in Smolensk, Russia. April 11 In the afternoon, at Blair House, the President met with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. Later, he met with President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan. He then met with Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani of Pakistan.  Later in the afternoon, at Blair House, the President met with Acting President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria. April 12 In the morning, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the President attended the Global Nuclear Security Summit. He then met with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Later, he met with Prime Minister Mohamed Najib bin Abdul Razak of Malaysia. In the afternoon, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the President met with President Viktor Yanukovych of Ukraine. Later, he met with President Serzh Sargsian of Armenia. He then met with President Hu Jintao of China. Later in the afternoon, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the President welcomed heads of delegations to the Global Nuclear Security Summit. In the evening, in the Walter E. Washington Convention Center dining room, the President hosted a summit working dinner. Later, he met separately with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan. April 13 In the morning, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the President participated in the Global Nuclear Security Summit heads of delegation photograph. Then, he and Vice President Joe Biden attended plenary session of the Global Nuclear Security Summit. In the afternoon, in the Walter E. Washington Convention Center dining room, the President attended a summit heads of delegation working lunch. During the lunch, he met separately with President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile and Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende of the Netherlands. Later, he met with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.  Later in the afternoon, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the President attended a plenary session of the Global Nuclear Security Summit. Later, he met with President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina. He then attended a summit heads of delegation reception. During the day, the President met separately with President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia and Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.  In the evening, the President met with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Krakow, Poland, to attend the state funeral of President Lech Kaczynski and First Lady Maria Kaczynska on April 18. April 14 In the morning, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with entertainer Garth Brooks and presented him with the Grammy on the Hill Award. The President announced that he has nominated Arthur D. Baylor to be U.S. marshal for the Middle District of Alabama. The President announced that he has nominated Michael R. Bladel to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Iowa. The President announced that he has nominated Kevin A. Carr to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. The President announced that he has nominated Kevin C. Harrison to be U.S. marshal for the Middle District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Darryl K. McPherson to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated Henry L. Whitehorn, Sr., to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Donald J. Cazayoux to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Pamela C. Marsh to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Zane D. Memeger to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated Peter J. Smith to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated Edward L. Stanton III to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated John F. Walsh to be U.S. attorney for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has nominated Stephen R. Wigginton to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated John A. Gibney, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Edward C. DuMont to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. April 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health Joseph A. Main. Later, he traveled to Cape Canaveral, FL, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, at Cape Canaveral Air Station, the President toured a commercial rocket processing facility. Later, he traveled to Miami, FL, where, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Boarman to be Public Printer of the U.S. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael Marshall as Alternate Federal Cochair of the Delta Regional Authority. April 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, they met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch.  The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorm from February 5 through 11. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from March 13 through 15. April 17 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Acting President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland to inform him that he had to cancel his trip to Krakow, Poland, to attend the state funeral of President Lech Kaczynski and First Lady Maria Kaczynska due to the closure of European airspace caused by the spread of volcanic ash from the eruption of Eyjafjallajokull volcano in Iceland. April 19 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers.  Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan J. Scott Gration.  Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. The President announced that he has nominated Donald M. Berwick to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on March 1 and continuing. April 20 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Senator Scott P. Brown to discuss immigration reform and financial regulatory reform. He also had separate telephone conversations with Senators Richard G. Lugar, George S. LeMieux, Lisa Murkowski, and Judd A. Gregg to discuss immigration reform. April 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he and Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis attended a reception for Group of Twenty (G–20) nations' labor ministers. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, on the State Floor, the President and Mrs. Obama welcomed members of the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic teams. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius. The President announced his intention to nominate Luis E. Arreaga-Rodas to be Ambassador to Iceland. The President announced his intention to nominate Rose M. Likins to be Ambassador to Peru. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Woodson to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced that he has nominated Leslie E. Kobayashi to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii. The President announced that he has nominated Susan Richard Nelson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. The President announced that he has nominated Ellen Lipton Hollander and James K. Bredar to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The President announced that he has nominated Edmond E-Min Chang to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from April 1 through 3. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, ice jams, and flooding from March 6 to April 3. April 22 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he was briefed by senior Government officials on the April 20 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion and subsequent sinking in the Gulf of Mexico, the ensuing oil spill response efforts, and the Coast Guard's search and rescue efforts for the 11 missing oil rig crewmembers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the crew of the Space Shuttle Endeavour. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher A. Masingill to be Federal Cochair of the Delta Regional Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Minow to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine E. Woteki to be Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to appoint Renee Mauborgne as a member of the President's Board of Advisers on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The President announced that he has named Stephanie Cutter as Assistant to the President for Special Projects. April 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed on the April 20 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion and subsequent sinking in the Gulf of Mexico, the ensuing oil spill response efforts, and the Coast Guard's search and rescue efforts for the 11 missing oil rig crewmembers. He was then briefed on the terrorist attacks in Baghdad and Khalidya, Iraq.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Asheville, NC. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorms from February 5 through 11. The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 12 and continuing. April 24 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. April 25 In the afternoon, the President traveled to the home of Reverend Billy Graham, where he met and had a private prayer session with Rev. Graham. Later, he traveled to Beckley, WV, where he was joined by Vice President Joe Biden. Then, at the Beckley-Raleigh County Convention Center, they met with the family members of miners killed in the Upper Big Branch mine explosion on April 5. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. April 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Minister of Defense Ehud Barak of Israel. Later in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Haley R. Barbour of Mississippi to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the April 24 tornadoes and discuss disaster response and recovery efforts and to discuss the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico caused by the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig explosion and subsequent sinking and the Federal Government's response efforts. He also had a separate telephone conversation with President Porfirio Lobo Sosa of Honduras. April 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he greeted members of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. Later, he traveled to Fort Madison, IA, arriving in the afternoon.  Later in the afternoon, the President toured the Siemens wind turbine blade manufacturing plant. Later, he traveled to Mount Pleasant, IA, where he toured the MogoOrganic farm. He then visited Jerry's Family Restaurant. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Ottumwa, IA. In the evening, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorms from February 5 through 11. April 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Macon, MO, arriving in the afternoon. While en route, he stopped in Monroe City, MO, and visited Peggy Sue's Cafe and LaRue Insurance Agency, Inc., and met with residents. Later in the afternoon, the President toured POET Biorefining. Later, he traveled to Palmyra, MO, where he toured the Schachtsiek family farm and met with the Schachtsiek family. He then traveled to Quincy, IL. Upon arrival, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he was briefed on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico that occurred after the April 20 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion and subsequent sinking and the Federal Government's response efforts. The President announced his intention to nominate Tracie Stevens to be Chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Malcolm D. Jackson to be Assistant Administrator for Environmental Information at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced that he has nominated Denise Jefferson Casper to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated Paul Kinloch Holmes III to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Arkansas. The President announced that he has nominated Carlton W. Reeves to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. The President announced that he has nominated Patti B. Saris to be a Commissioner and the Chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Dabney Langhorne Friedrich to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Barry R. Grissom to be U.S. attorney for the District of Kansas. The President announced that he has nominated Charles Gillen Dunne to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of New York. April 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, in which he was briefed on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico that occurred after the April 20 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion and subsequent sinking and the Federal Government's response efforts. Later, at the Washington National Cathedral, he, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Joe Biden attended the funeral of civil rights leader Dorothy I. Height. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Governor Piyush "Bobby" Jindal of Louisiana, Governor Charles J. Crist, Jr., of Florida, Governor J. Richard Perry of Texas, Governor Robert R. Riley of Alabama, and Governor Haley R. Barbour of Mississippi to discuss the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico that occurred after the April 20 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion and subsequent sinking and the Federal Government's response efforts. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraising dinner. The President announced his intention to nominate Janet L. Yellen to be Vice-Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter A. Diamond and Sarah Bloom Raskin to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on April 23 and 24. April 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Beltsville, MD, where he toured the James J. Rowley Training Center and observed U.S. Secret Service training procedures and met with Secret Service personnel. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding beginning on February 26 and continuing. May 1 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Ann Arbor, MI, where, at the University of Michigan, he received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree and administered the oath of office to ROTC graduates during the university's spring commencement ceremony. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Andrews Air Force Base, MD. While en route aboard Marine One, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan briefed him on the May 1 attempted terrorist attack in Times Square and the New York Police Department's investigation into the attack. Upon arrival at Andrews Air Force Base, he traveled to New Orleans, LA, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he was briefed on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico caused by the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig explosion and subsequent sinking and Federal and State disaster response efforts. Later in the afternoon, upon arrival at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport, the President met with Governor Piyush "Bobby" Jindal of Louisiana. He then traveled to Coast Guard Station Venice, LA. While en route, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City to discuss the attempted terrorist attack and the investigation into the attack. He then had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Yeoryios Papandreou of Greece to discuss Greece's financial reform program and International Monetary Fund and euro area economic assistance.  Later in the afternoon, the President was briefed on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and disaster response efforts by Federal, State, and local officials and met with first-responders. Later, he traveled to Plaquemines Parish, where he met with fishermen who are being affected by the oil spill. Then, aboard Marine One, he, Governor Jindal, Coast Guard Commandant Thad W. Allen, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan took an aerial tour of the coastline that will be affected by the oil spill. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he was updated on the New York Police Department's investigation into the attempted terrorist attack in Times Square. May 3 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss Middle East peace efforts. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Governor Philip N. Bredesen, Jr., of Tennessee and Governor Steven L. Beshear of Kentucky to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the flooding taking place in their States, discuss damage and recovery efforts, and offer Federal assistance. He also had a conference call with U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Thad W. Allen and State and local government officials in the Gulf Coast region to discuss the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico caused by the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig explosion and subsequent sinking and Federal and State disaster response efforts. He also had a telephone conversation with Duane Jackson, a Times Square vendor who reported the suspicious car to police officers on the evening of May 1. Also, throughout the day, the President was briefed on the attempted terrorist attack in Times Square and the New York Police Department's investigation into the attack.  In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President hosted a dinner for the Business Council. The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by a water main break beginning on May 1 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding on April 24 and 25. May 4 In the morning, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan informed the President about the arrest of Faisal Shahzad for his suspected involvement in the May 1 attempted terrorist attack in Times Square. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Lance Orton, a Times Square vendor who reported the suspicious car to police officers on the evening of May 1, and New York Police Officers Wayne Rhatigan and Pam Duffy, who were the first officers on the scene of the attempted terrorist attack and began the evacuation of citizens and tourists from Times Square and the surrounding areas.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Nobel Prize winner, author, and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Alan Bersin to thank him for the agency's work in the investigation into the May 1 attempted terrorist attack in Times Square and their assistance in arresting the bombing suspect, Faisal Shahzad. He also had separate telephone conversations with Governor Mickey D. Beebe of Arkansas and Governor Haley R. Barbour of Mississippi to discuss the recent storms, tornadoes, and flooding in their States and damage and recovery efforts. Also, in the Situation Room, he met with administration officials during a terrorism threat briefing to discuss the attempted car bombing in Times Square, the investigation into the bombing, and the arrest of Faisal Shahzad. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, straight-line winds, and tornadoes beginning on April 30 and continuing. May 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Jon L. Kyl. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Orrin G. Hatch. May 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan briefed him on the disaster response efforts in Tennessee and the other States in the southeast affected by storms, tornadoes, and flooding. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the investigation into the May 1 attempted terrorist attack in Times Square. In the afternoon, Secretary of Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers briefed the President on the economic situation in Europe and Greece. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe winter storms and snowstorms from February 5 through 11. May 7 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to San Jose, Costa Rica, to attend the inauguration of Laura Chinchilla as President of Costa Rica on May 8: Susan E. Rice (head of delegation); Anne S. Andrew; Christopher J. Dodd; and Nancy H. Sutley. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip Carter III to be Ambassador to Cote d'Ivoire. The President announced his intention to nominate Gerald M. Feierstein to be Ambassador to Yemen. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter M. McKinley to be Ambassador to Colombia. The President announced his intention to appoint Patricia J. Niehaus as a member of the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations. The President announced his intention to appoint John D. Arras as a member of the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues. The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by an earthquake beginning on April 4 and continuing. May 8 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. May 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Hampton, VA, where, at Hampton University, he met with Hampton University President William R. Harvey and his family and members of the university's board of trustees. He then had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the economic situation in Europe and European Union financial markets stabilization efforts. Later, during the Hampton University spring graduation ceremony, he was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. Later in the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the economic situation in Europe and European Union financial markets stabilization efforts. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Supreme Court Associate Justice candidate Elena Kagan to inform her of his decision to nominate her to the position. May 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with Cabinet members and White House staff to review BP's efforts to stop the oil leak from the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico and discuss efforts to mitigate the damage being done by the oil spill and Federal Government assistance to Gulf Coast States affected by the oil spill. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu. May 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain to discuss the economic situation in Europe and European Union financial markets stabilization efforts and send his best wishes to King Juan Carlos after his recent surgery. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary Clinton and U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Patrick J. Leahy. Later, also in the Oval Office, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate briefed him on the storms and tornadoes in Oklahoma. He then had a telephone conversation with Governor C. Bradford Henry of Oklahoma to discuss damage and recovery efforts and offer Federal assistance. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mahmoud Abbas  of the Palestinian Authority to discuss Middle East peace efforts. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to congratulate him on his appointment to the office and discuss United Kingdom-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Alan Garcia Perez of Peru to the White House on June 1. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and tornadoes beginning on May 1 and continuing. May 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President had lunch with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din al-Hariri of Lebanon to the White House on May 24. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as U.S. delegates to the 63d World Health Assembly of the World Health Organization from May 17 through 21: Kathleen Sebelius (chief delegate); Betty E. King; and Nils Daulaire. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as alternate U.S. delegates to the 63d World Health Assembly of the World Health Organization from May 17 through 21: Kerri-Ann Jones; Nicole Lurie; Regina M. Benjamin; Margaret A. Hamburg; Mary Wakefield; Ann S. Blackwood; and David E. Hohman. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Feierstein to be Assistant Administrator for Latin America and the Caribbean at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Osvaldo Luis Gratacos Munet to be Inspector General of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from March 14 through 31. May 13 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to inform him that he was sending the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) to the Senate for its consideration and to discuss Middle East peace efforts and efforts to reach an agreement on U.N. Security Council sanctions against Iran. Later, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. He then traveled to Cheektowaga, NY, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, upon arrival at Buffalo Niagara International Airport, the President met with family members of victims of the Continental Connection Flight 3407 crash, which occurred on February 12, 2009, in Clarence, NY. He then stopped for lunch at Duff's Famous Wings and visited with patrons. Later, he traveled to Buffalo, NY, where he toured Industrial Support Inc.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, where, at One Police Plaza, he toured the New York Police Department's Real Time Crime Center and met with police officers. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education: Thomas R. Acevedo; Derek J. Bailey; Robin A. Butterfield; Robert B. Cook; Deborah Jackson-Dennison; and Alyce Spotted Bear. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation: Irasema Coronado; Geoffrey Garver; Felicia Marcus; Diane Takvorian; and Jonathan Waterhouse. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on April 2 and continuing. May 14 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Cabinet members and White House staff to review BP's efforts to stop the oil leak from the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico and discuss efforts to mitigate the damage being done by the oil spill and Federal Government assistance to Gulf Coast States affected by the oil spill. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on May 1 and 2. May 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to discuss the investigation into the March 26 sinking of the South Korean Navy patrol ship Cheonan, South Korea-U.S. relations, and U.N. Security Council sanctions against North Korea in response to their nuclear weapons development program.  The President announced his intention to nominate John S. Pistole to be Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Helen P. Reed-Rowe to be Ambassador to Palau. The President announced his intention to appoint Harold Varmus as Director of the National Cancer Institute. May 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he traveled to Youngstown, OH, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President toured V&M STAR Ohio. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with Jewish members of the Senate Democratic Caucus and the House Democratic Caucus. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick S. Moon to be Ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher W. Murray to be Ambassador to the Republic of the Congo. The President announced his intention to appoint Milford W. Donaldson as Chair of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. May 19 In the morning, on the South Lawn, he, Mrs. Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, and his wife Jill Biden welcomed President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico and his wife Margarita Esther Zavala Gomez del Campo. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland Louis B. Susman. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss Brazil and Turkey's nuclear energy deal with Iran, in which Iran would trade its uranium for ready-enriched reactor fuel from the countries, as well as to discuss Iraq's continued efforts to form a Government and Middle East peace efforts. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama welcomed President Calderon and Mrs. Zavala. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photograph with President Calderon and Mrs. Zavala. Later, on the South Lawn, he and President Calderon made remarks prior to a state dinner reception and entertainment. May 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Senator Arlen Specter. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner.  The President announced that he has nominated Susan L. Carney to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Anthony J. Battaglia to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Edward J. Davila to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Robert L. Wilkins to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated David J. Hickton to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated William C. Killian to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee. May 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Christopher J. Dodd and Representative Barney Frank to discuss financial regulatory reform. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. The President announced his intention to nominate James M. Cole to be Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. May 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to congratulate her on achieving parliamentary approval of the country's contribution to the European stabilization fund and to discuss financial regulatory reform and Iran's nuclear weapons development program. During the day, on the White House basketball court, the President participated in an interview with Marv Albert of Turner Network Television (TNT). May 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, on the State Floor, he attended a reception for the Federal Judges Association. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in the daily Gulf of Mexico oil spill briefing conference call with Governor Piyush "Bobby" Jindal of Louisiana, Governor Haley R. Barbour of Mississippi, Governor Robert R. Riley of Alabama, and Governor Charles J. Crist, Jr., of Florida. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din al-Hariri of Lebanon. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia to the White House on May 27. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and straight-line winds from May 10 through 13. May 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, at the U.S. Capitol, the President addressed the Senate Republican Caucus. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, who provided him with his scientific and technical assessment of BP's plan to stop the Deepwater Horizon oil rig leak in the Gulf of Mexico. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a reception for Senator Barbara Boxer and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark C. Storella to be Ambassador to Zambia. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew J. Bryza to be Ambassador to Azerbaijan. The President announced his intention to appoint Melissa Savage and C. Kenneth Smith as members of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust. May 26 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Fremont, CA, where he toured Solyndra, Inc., and met with construction workers who are building an addition to the Solyndra facility. He then met with Governor Arnold A. Schwarzenegger of California.  Later in the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. Throughout the day, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Jim Messina briefed the President on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and BP's efforts to stop the leak. May 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, on the North Portico, they participated in a photograph with former President William J. Clinton and the U.S. World Cup soccer team. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with former President Clinton. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Biden were briefed on the 2010 hurricane season forecast and the Federal Government's national hurricane preparedness. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Chicago, IL. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan to discuss the North Korean attack on the South Korean Navy patrol ship Cheonan, North Korea and Iran's nuclear weapons development programs, and Japan-U.S. relations.  The White House announced that the President will welcome President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to the White House on June 9. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands to attend Memorial Day ceremonies commemorating the 65th anniversary of the end of World War II on May 29 and 30: Eric K. Shinseki (head of delegation); Ivo H. Daalder; Fay Hartog Levin; Howard W. Gutman; Cynthia Stroum; and Charles Payne. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul M. Tiao to be Inspector General of the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Neile L. Miller to be Principal Deputy Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric D. Benjaminson to be Ambassador to Gabon. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Thomas Dougherty to be Ambassador to Burkina Faso. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Board for Education Sciences: Anthony S. Bryk; Kris D. Gutierrez; Beverly L. Hall; and Robert A. Underwood. The President announced his intention to appoint Philip Conkling as Alternate Commissioner of the Roosevelt Campobello International Park Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Max O. Cogburn, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated James E. Shadid to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated William J. Ihlenfeld II to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of West Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated John W. Vaudreuil to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin.  May 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to discuss the upcoming U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue and to express his condolences for the May 22 plane crash in Mangalore and the May 28 train attack. Later, he traveled to New Orleans, LA.  Later in the morning, the President traveled to Fourchon Beach, LA. While en route aboard Marine One, he was briefed by Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG, in his capacity as national incident commander for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Later, he traveled to Grand Isle, LA. In the afternoon, at U.S. Coast Guard Station Grand Isle, the President attended a briefing by Adm. Allen on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Later, he returned to Chicago, IL. May 29 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. May 30 During the day, the President was briefed by Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG, in his capacity as national incident commander for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. May 31 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the postponement of their meeting and to express his regret for the loss of life that took place during an Israeli military raid on the Gaza Freedom Flotilla, a group of ships bound for Gaza with humanitarian aid. Later, he traveled to Elwood, IL, where he participated in a Memorial Day wreath-laying ceremony at Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery.  In the afternoon, the President met with veterans and servicemembers and their families. Later, he returned to Chicago, IL. While en route, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss the Israeli military raid of the Gaza Freedom Flotilla and the upcoming G–8 and G–20 summits.  Later in the afternoon, at the Hines Fisher House, the President met with veterans and servicemembers who were being treated at the Hines VA Hospital and their families. Later, he and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Andrews Air Force Base, MD, arriving in the evening.  During the day, the President had two additional telephone conversations with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the military raid on the Gaza Freedom Flotilla. Later in the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to express his condolences for the loss of life and injuries of Turkish citizens that occurred during an Israeli commando raid on the MV Mavi Marmara, which was part of the Gaza Freedom Flotilla, and to discuss humanitarian assistance for Gaza and Middle East peace efforts. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Bethlehem to attend the Palestine Investment Conference from June 2 through 4: George J. Mitchell (head of delegation); Neal Wolin; Daniel Rubinstein; Alonzo Fulgham; Mara Rudman; Ziad Asali; and Saed Nashef. June 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, USA, commanding general, U.S. Forces—Iraq. He then traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.   In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Gov. Janice K. Brewer of Arizona.  Later in the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President participated in an interview with Larry King of CNN's "Larry King Live." Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the evening, he had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia to inform them that he was postponing his trip to Asia and Australia that was scheduled for later this month and to discuss Australia-U.S. relations and Indonesia-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to nominate Maura Connelly to be Ambassador to Lebanon. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Smith to be Ambassador to Greece. The President announced his intention to nominate Subra Suresh to be Director of the National Science Foundation. June 4 In the morning, the President and Vice President Joe Biden traveled to Hyattsville, MD, where they toured K. Neal International Trucks, Inc. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. Later in the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President and Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG, in his capacity as national incident commander for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, traveled to Grand Isle, LA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 5 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister-designate Naoto Kan of Japan to congratulate him on his election and discuss Japan-U.S. relations. June 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Kalamazoo, MI. Later, at the Radisson Plaza Hotel at Kalamazoo Center, he attended two Democratic Party fundraisers. He then participated in an interview with Matt Lauer of NBC’s "Today" show. Later in the afternoon, at Western Michigan University, the President met with members of Kalamazoo Central High School's graduating class. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Theodore Strickland of Ohio to express his and Mrs. Obama's condolences for those killed during the June 6 tornado and offered Federal assistance. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a briefing on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Later, he traveled to Wheaton, MD. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota. June 9 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines to congratulate him on his May 10 election victory and discuss Philippines-U.S. relations. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing, in which he was briefed on the shooting death of a 15-year-old Mexican boy along the U.S.-Mexican border by a U.S. Border Patrol agent. He then had an economic briefing, also in the Oval Office.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a briefing on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The President announced his intention to nominate James F. Entwistle to be Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The President announced his intention to nominate Mimi E. Alemayehou, Johnnie Carson, and Edward W. "Ward" Brehm to be members of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation. The President announced that he has nominated Robert E. O'Neill to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Mark L. Ericks to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Washington. The President announced that he has nominated Joseph P. Faughnan, Sr., to be U.S. marshal for the District of Connecticut. The President announced that he has nominated Donald M. O'Keefe to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated H. Michael Oglesby to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Arkansas. The President announced that he has nominated Kenneth J. Runde to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Iowa. The President announced that he has nominated Charles T. Weeks II to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Oklahoma. June 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he had a briefing on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President met with family members of the workers killed during the Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Arlen Specter. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business leaders and energy experts to discuss energy reform. The President announced that he has nominated James E. Graves, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. June 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a briefing on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with small-business owners. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to the United States on June 22 through 24. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne M. Harrington to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the National Nuclear Security Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Laurence D. Wohlers to be Ambassador to the Central African Republic. June 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Michael D. Beebe of Arkansas to express his condolences for those killed and those who went missing during the June 11 flash flooding at the Albert Pike campground in Ouachita National Forest and to offer Federal assistance. June 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Biloxi, MS. He then traveled to Gulfport, MS.  In the afternoon, at The Chimneys Restaurant, the President had lunch with Governor Haley R. Barbour of Mississippi and his wife Marsha, Mayor George Schloegel of Gulfport, MS, Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG, in his capacity as national incident commander for the BP oil spill, community members, and local business owners to discuss the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. He then traveled to Theodore, AL. Later, he traveled to Dauphin Island, AL.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Fort Morgan, AL. He then traveled to Orange Beach, AL, where, at Tacky Jacks Tavern & Grill, he had dinner and met with patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to Pensacola, FL. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling: Frances G. Beinecke; Donald Boesch; Terry D. Garcia; Cherry A. Murray; and Frances Ulmer. June 15 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Governor Charles J. Crist, Jr., of Florida toured Pensacola Beach. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, U.S. Central Command, to see how he was doing after collapsing earlier in the morning during a Senate hearing. The President announced his intention to nominate Judith R. Fergin to be Ambassador to Timor-Leste. The President announced his intention to appoint Suzan D. Johnson Cook as Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to appoint Felice D. Gaer and William J. Shaw as members of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. The President announced that he has appointed Michael R. Bromwich as chief adviser for efforts to reform the Minerals Management Service and Federal regulations and oversight of offshore oil and gas drilling. June 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Scott P. Brown. June 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a briefing on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Veterans of Foreign Wars Commander-in-Chief Thomas J. Tradewell, Sr. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Navy Raymond E. Mabus, Jr. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Assistant Commandant of the Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps nominee Gen. James F. Amos. During the day, Vice President Joe Biden presented the "Summer of Recovery: Project Activity Increases in Summer 2010" report to the President. The President announced that he has nominated James E. Boasberg and Amy Berman Jackson to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Sue E. Myerscough to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated James T. Fowler to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Craig E. Thayer to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Washington. June 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Columbus, OH. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Los Angeles Lakers head coach Phil Jackson to congratulate him and his team on winning the NBA Finals for the second year in a row and on his 11th championship as a head coach. In the evening, at Nationals Park, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia attended the Washington Nationals-Chicago White Sox baseball game. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael S. Owen to be Ambassador to Sierra Leone. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the American Battle Monuments Commission: Darrell Dorgan; John L. Estrada; Evelyn Foote; Rolland Kidder; Richard L. Klass; Merrill A. McPeak; Constance Morella; and Maura C. Sullivan.  June 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. June 20 The White House announced that the President will welcome King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to the White House on June 29. June 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain. In the afternoon, on the South Lawn, the President hosted a Father's Day mentoring barbeque. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing, followed by ameeting with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss the upcoming Group of Eight (G–8) summit in Muskoka, Canada, and Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Toronto, Canada. June 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with health insurance executives and State insurance commissioners to discuss implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. He was also briefed on the wildfires in Arizona and had a telephone conversation with Governor Janice K. Brewer of Arizona to discuss Federal and State efforts to contain the wildfires and offer continued Federal assistance. June 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, to accept his resignation. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Later, in the Oval Office, he me with h Vice President Biden and their national security team.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, U.S. Central Command., to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan and his intention to nominate Gen. Petraeus to assume Gen. McChrystal's former command.   In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to inform him of his decision to accept Gen. McChrystal's resignation and his intention to nominate Gen. Petraeus to assume command of NATO's International Security Assistance Force. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, who confirmed that British Army Lt. Gen. Nick Parker would serve as acting commander of NATO's International Security Assistance Force and passed on to the President Gen. Parker's commitment that he would continue to carry out the current strategy in Afghanistan.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to appoint Drew Brees and Dominique Dawes as Cochairs of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition: Dan Barber; Tedy Bruschi; Carl Edwards; Allyson Felix; Grant H. Hill; Billie Jean King; Michelle Kwan; Risa Lavizzo-Mourey; Cornell McClellan; Stephen L. McDonough; Chris Paul; Curtis Pride; Donna Richardson Joyner; and Ian Smith. June 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with President Medvedev. In the afternoon, the President and President Medvedev traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at Ray's Hell-Burger, they had lunch. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with the U.S. World Cup team to congratulate them on their June 23 victory against Algeria and wish them luck on their June 26 match against Ghana. He also had a telephone conversation with President-elect Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia to congratulate him on his June 20 run-off election victory and discuss Colombia-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia to congratulate her on assuming the position of Prime Minister and discuss Australia-U.S. relations and Australian assistance in Afghanistan. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service: Rick Christman; Jane Hartley; Marguerite W. Kondracke; Matthew McCabe; John Podesta; Lisa Quiroz; and Phyllis N. Segal. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides beginning on June 12 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from May 26 through 31. June 25 In the morning, the President traveled to Muskoka, Canada. Upon arrival at Huntsville/Deerhurst Resort Airport, he traveled to the Deerhurst Resort. In the afternoon, the President attended the Group of Eight (G–8) summit working lunch. Later, he participated in a photograph with G–8 leaders.  Later in the afternoon, the President participated in a G–8 summit session with G–8 leaders, President of the European Union Herman Van Rompuy, and the leaders of Algeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, Malawi, Nigeria, Senegal, and South Africa. They all then participated in a G–8 summit working session with the leaders of Colombia, Haiti, and Jamaica. Later, they all participated in a G–8 summit photograph. In the evening, the President and G–8 leaders met with participants of My Summit 2010, the official international youth summit. He then attended the G–8 summit working dinner. Later, he met with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss the progress made during the G–8 summit and the upcoming G–20 summit in Toronto, Canada. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Manila, Philippines, to attend the inauguration of Benigno S. Aquino III as President of the Philippines on June 30: Ron Kirk (head of delegation); and Harry K. Thomas, Jr. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert P. Jackson to be Ambassador to Cameroon. The President announced his intention to nominate James F. Jeffrey to be Ambassador to Iraq. The President announced his intention to nominate Alejandro D. Wolff to be Ambassador to Chile. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela Young-Holmes to be a member of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to nominate Ramona E. Romero to be General Counsel for the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Father Joseph Pius Pietrzyk and Harry Korrell to be members of the Legal Services Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Ciuniq Pete as a member of the U.S. Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph Jeu and Michael J. Lyden as members of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. June 26 In the morning, the President participated in a G–8 summit working session. Later, he and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom traveled to Toronto, Canada, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, upon arrival at Toronto Pearson International Airport, the President and Prime Minister Cameron traveled to the InterContinental Toronto Centre.  In the evening, the President traveled to the Fairmont Royal York Hotel, where he was joined by Mrs. Obama. He then met with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. They then attended the Group of Twenty (G–20) summit working dinner. Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to the InterContinental Toronto Centre. June 27 In the morning, the President traveled to the Metro Toronto Convention Centre. Later, he participated in the G–20 summit opening plenary session. He then participated in the G–20 summit leaders working session. Later in the morning, the President participated in a G–20 summit plenary session. In the afternoon, the President participated in a photograph with G–20 leaders. Later, he met with participants of My Summit 2010, the official international youth summit. He then participated in the G–20 summit working lunch.  Later in the afternoon, the President participated in two G–20 summit plenary sessions. Later, he returned to the InterContinental Toronto Centre. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he met with Supreme Court Associate Justice nominee Elena Kagan before her Senate confirmation hearings. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Old Family Dining Room, he met with community groups and grassroots activists to discuss immigration reform. The President announced his intention to nominate Norman L. Eisen to be Ambassador to the Czech Republic. The President announced his intention to nominate Scot A. Marciel to be Ambassador to Indonesia. The President announced his intention to nominate Terence P. McCulley to be Ambassador to Nigeria. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry L. Palmer to be Ambassador to Venezuela. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education: Samuel McCracken; Mary Jane Oatman-Wak Wak; Alapaki Nahale-a; and S. Alan Ray. June 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he met with a bipartisan group of Senators to discuss energy and climate legislation. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Later, in the Old Family Dining Room, he had a working lunch with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Then, in the State Dining Room, he met with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Shanghai, China, to attend the U.S.A. National Day at Expo 2010 Shanghai on July 2: Madeleine K. Albright (head of delegation); Christopher P. Lu; Capricia Penavic Marshall; Robert Goldberg; Jose H. Villarreal; Elizabeth Frawley Bagley; Ivan K. Fong; Christina Tchen; Leocadia Zak; Beatrice Camp; Bonnie Thie; and Maya Lin. The President declared an emergency in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Tropical Storm Alex beginning on June 27 and continuing. June 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Racine, WI. In the afternoon, at O&H Danish Bakery, the President met with Mayor John Dickert of Racine, WI. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. July 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had lunch with business leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. Then, in the Situation Room, they were briefed on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Biden. The President announced his intention to nominate Alexander A. Arvizu to be Ambassador to Albania. The President announced his intention to nominate Nisha Desai Biswal to be Assistant Administrator for Asia at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Michele T. Bond to be Ambassador to Lesotho. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul W. Jones to be Ambassador to Malaysia. The President announced his intention to nominate George A. Krol to be Ambassador to Uzbekistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Francis J. Ricciardone to be Ambassador to Turkey. The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy C. Scheve to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Duane E. Woerth to the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization. The President announced his intention to appoint James M. Kesteloot as a member of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. The President announced his intention to appoint Wayne Newell, Stacy Phelps, and Patricia Whitefoot as members of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education. The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from March 12 to April 1. July 2 In the morning, the President and Vice President Joe Biden traveled to Charleston, WV. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 17 through 26. July 3 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. July 4 In the evening, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a barbeque and concert for military personnel and their families. Later, they watched the Independence Day fireworks display on the National Mall from the roof of the White House. July 5 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a conference call with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry and Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Acting President and President-elect Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland to congratulate him on his July 4 election victory, to discuss Poland-U.S. relations and Poland's military contribution to the NATO mission in Afghanistan, and to offer his condolences for Polish military personnel killed in Afghanistan.  July 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a working lunch with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. July 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the President's Export Council. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden had a briefing on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Then, in the Private Dining Room, they had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Bosnia and Herzegovina to attend the ceremony commemorating the 15th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide on July 11: Charles L. English (head of delegation); Stephen J. Rapp; and Samantha Power. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the President's Export Council: Mary Vermeer Andringa; Stephanie A. Burns; Scott Davis; Richard L. Friedman; Gene Hale; C. Robert Henrikson; William Hite; Robert A. Iger; Charles R. Kaye; Jeffrey Kindler; Andrew N. Liveris; Robert A. Mandell; Alan Mulally; Raul Pedraza; Ivan Seidenberg; Glenn Tilton; James S. Turley; and Patricia A. Woertz. The President announced his recess appointment of Donald M. Berwick as Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his recess appointment of Philip E. Coyle III as Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The President announced his recess appointment of Joshua Gotbaum as Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. July 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Kansas City, MO. In the afternoon, the President toured Smith Electric Vehicles. Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. In the evening, at the Aria Resort and Casino, the President attended a dinner fundraiser for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S.: Ronald A. Cass; Mariano-Florentino Cuellar; Julius Genachowski; Theodore B. Olson; Thomas Perez; Jane C. Sherburne; and Patricia McGowan Wald. The President announced that he has appointed Preeta D. Bansal as Vice Chair of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S. The President announced that he has appointed Thomasina Rogers and Michael Fitzpatrick as members of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S. July 9 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to discuss Middle East peace efforts and the situation in Gaza and the West Bank. The White House announced that the President will host President Leonel Fernandez Reyna of the Dominican Republic at the White House on July 12 for a working meeting. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela E. Bridgewater to be Ambassador to Jamaica. The President announced his intention to nominate Sean P. "Jack" Buckley to be Commissioner of Education Statistics at the National Center for Education Statistics at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert P. Mikulak for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure as U.S. Representative to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The President announced his intention to nominate Phyllis M. Powers to be Ambassador to Panama. July 10 The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on June 15 and continuing. July 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni of Uganda to express his condolences for those killed in the July 11 terrorist bombings in Kampala and offered U.S. assistance. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Boy Scouts of America participants and executive leadership. July 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden met with Senate Democratic leaders to discuss legislative priorities before the August recess. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to nominate Jacob J. "Jack" Lew to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget. July 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. He then met with Warren E. Buffet, chief executive officer and chairman, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with Senators Amy Klobuchar, Sheldon Whitehouse, Sherrod Brown, Robert P. Casey, Jr., and Claire McCaskill. Later, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he attended a meeting on the administration's progress in increasing and improving cybersecurity. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden hosted a meeting with former President William J. Clinton and business leaders.  Later in the afternoon, the President had a conference call with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Secretary of the Interior Kenneth L. Salazar, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson, Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG (Ret.), in his capacity as national incident commander for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner to discuss oil spill response efforts in the Gulf of Mexico and BP's efforts to cap the Deepwater Horizon oil well. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with House Democratic leaders to discuss legislative priorities before the August recess. The President announced that he has nominated Mark F. Green to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. The President announced that he has nominated Joseph H. Hogsett to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Indiana. The President announced that he has nominated Marco A. Hernandez to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon. The President announced that he has nominated Beryl A. Howell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Steve C. Jones to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The President announced that he has nominated Diana Saldana to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Michael H. Simon to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon. The President announced that he has nominated Victoria F. Nourse to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Conrad E. Candelaria to be U.S. marshal for the District of New Mexico. The President announced that he has nominated James E. Clark to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Kentucky. The President announced that he has nominated Joseph A. Papili to be U.S. marshal for the District of Delaware. The President announced that he has nominated James A. Thompson to be U.S. marshal for the District of Utah. The President declared a major disaster in Wyoming and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding from June 4 through 18. July 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Grand Rapids, MI, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, at Gerald R. Ford International Airport, the President participated in an interview with Chuck Todd of NBC News. He then returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen. The President announced his intention to nominate Kristie A. Kenney to be Ambassador to Thailand. The President announced his intention to nominate Jo Ellen Powell to be Ambassador to Mauritania. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes beginning on June 1 and continuing. July 16 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Bar Harbor, ME, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters visited Acadia National Park. Later, they toured Frenchman Bay. They then returned to Bar Harbor. July 17 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia visited Acadia National Park. Later, they returned to Bar Harbor, ME. July 18 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. July 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with former Senator and astronaut John H. Glenn, Jr., to discuss the future of the space program. July 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden hosted a working lunch with Prime Minister Cameron. During the day, the President was briefed on the situation surrounding the firing of former U.S. Department of Agriculture's Georgia State Director for Rural Development Shirley Sherrod. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark M. Boulware to be Ambassador to Chad. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher J. McMullen to be Ambassador to Angola. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Mussomeli to be Ambassador to Slovenia. The President announced his intention to nominate Wanda L. Nesbitt to be Ambassador to Namibia. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Brevard Stewart to be Ambassador to Laos. The President announced his intention to appoint Helen Hurcombe, Kathleen Martinez, and Pamela C. Schwenke as members of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. July 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Joe Biden. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with Members of the House of Representatives. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Situation Room, he was briefed on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. During the day, the President was briefed on the situation surrounding the firing of former U.S. Department of Agriculture's Georgia State Director for Rural Development Shirley Sherrod. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack. The President announced that he has nominated Charles B. Day to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The President announced that he has nominated Kathleen M. Williams to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Albert Najera to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated William C. Sibert to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Myron M. Sutton to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Indiana. July 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with former U.S. Department of Agriculture's Georgia State Director for Rural Development Shirley Sherrod. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, USA, commanding general, U.S. Forces—Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Christopher R. Hill. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced his intention to appoint Howard L. Gottlieb as a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. The President announced his intention to appoint Elaine Wynn as a member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. July 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President was briefed by Rear Adm. Peter V. Neffenger, USCG, in his capacity as deputy national incident commander for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and Federal Emergency Management Agency Deputy Administrator Richard Serino on the response to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the potential impact of Tropical Storm Bonnie on cleanup efforts. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and mudslides beginning on July 17 and continuing. July 26 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Space Shuttle Atlantis and International Space Station crewmembers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. He then met with his senior advisers.  Later in the afternoon, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing, followed by a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, James Langevin, and Frank J. Sensenbrenner, Jr., and Senator Thomas R. Harkin. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Carl-Henric Svanberg, chairman of the board of BP p.l.c., to discuss the company's change in leadership. The President announced his intention to appoint David Grubb, William R. Hambrecht, and Charlene Harvey as members of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust. The President announced that he has appointed Daphne Kwok as Chair of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 13 through 15. July 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President had lunch with Members of the House of Representatives. Later, in the East Room, he met with and congratulated the 2009 Little League Softball World Series champion Warner Robins, Georgia, softball team. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, at the Mandarin Oriental, Washington, DC, hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraising dinner. The President declared a major disaster in Idaho and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from June 2 through 10. July 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator John F. Kerry. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Edison, NJ, where, at the Tastee Sub Shop, he met with small-business owners to discuss the economy and small-business legislation. Later, he traveled to New York City, where, at ABC Studios, he participated in the taping of an interview for "The View." Later in the afternoon, at the Four Seasons Hotel New York, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Colombia to attend the inauguration of Juan Manuel Santos Calderon on August 7: James L. Jones, Jr. (head of delegation); and William R. Brownfield. The President announced that he has nominated Ripley Eagles Rand to be U.S. attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated M. Scott Bowen to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Michigan. The President announced that he has nominated Marina Garcia Marmolejo to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Maria E. Raffinan to be an associate judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.  The President announced that he has nominated Beverly J. Harvard to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Georgia. The President announced that he has nominated David M. Singer to be U.S. marshal for the Central District of California. July 29 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki, and veterans service organizations' representatives. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 16 through 24. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes beginning on June 1 and continuing. July 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Detroit, MI, where he toured the Chrysler Jefferson North Assembly Plant. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Hamtramck, MI, where he toured the General Motors Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly Center. Later, he participated in an interview with Harry Smith of CBS News. He then returned to Washington, DC. August 1 In the afternoon, at the Verizon Center, the President and his daughter Sasha attended a Washington Mystics-Tulsa Shock basketball game. August 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. August 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Officer Building, the President met with African Growth and Opportunity Act Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum participants. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, on the South Lawn, the President met with children attending a Let's Move initiative tennis clinic. In the evening, the President was briefed on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill by Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner. He then had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and Thomas O. Hunter, former President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, to discuss BP's static kill procedure. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Alex beginning on June 30 and continuing. August 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers, during which he was briefed on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Later, he met with Adm. Thad W. Allen, USCG (Ret.), in his capacity as national incident commander for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Later in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with First Lady Michelle Obama and their daughter Sasha, who both wished him a happy birthday. Then, he had a telephone conversation with his daughter Malia, who also wished him a happy birthday. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President had lunch with Senators. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Minority Leader Addison M. "Mitch" McConnell.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Obama residence in Hyde Park. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott C. Doney to be Chief Scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Nancy E. Lindborg to be Assistant Administrator of the Democracy Conflict and Humanitarian Affairs Bureau at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin G. Nealer to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Chase T. Rogers and Wilfredo Martinez to be members of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to appoint Warren M. Stern to be Director of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced that he has nominated Jeffrey T. Holt to be U.S. marshal for the Western District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Steven C. Stafford to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Paul C. Thielen to be U.S. marshal for the District of South Dakota. August 5 In the morning, the President toured a Ford Motor Company assembly plant. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Allison Blakely to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate David B. Buckley to be Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Cora B. Marrett to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald K. Steinberg to be Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Juan F. Vasquez to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. August 6 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he toured Gelberg Signs. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.  August 8 In the afternoon, at Fort McNair, the President played a basketball game with college and professional basketball players for wounded military personnel and participants in the White House Mentorship Program. In the evening, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughter Sasha attended a barbeque to celebrate his birthday. August 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Austin, TX.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Dallas, TX. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, during which he was briefed on the flooding in Pakistan. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Senator Michael F. Bennet to congratulate him on his Colorado primary election victory. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes from June 7 to July 21. August 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, during which he was briefed on the flooding in Pakistan. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the drawdown of U.S. military forces in Iraq, the upcoming end of U.S. combat operations in Iraq, and Iraq's efforts to form a new Government after the March 7 parliamentary elections. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Navy Raymond E. Mabus, Jr. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from July 20 through 24. August 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, during which he was briefed on the flooding in Pakistan. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Rose Garden, the President participated in a photograph with the White House summer interns. He also had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to express his condolences for the country's losses during the recent wildfires and to inform him that U.S. Agency for International Development, Department of Defense, U.S. Forest Service, and State of California are mobilizing firefighting and airlift equipment in response to Russia's request for technical assistance in combating the wildfires. August 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, during which he was briefed on the flooding in Pakistan. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President participated in the departure ceremony of Lt. Col. David Kalinske, USMC, Marine Corps Aide to the President. He also had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry, and Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. August 14 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Sasha traveled to Panama City Beach, FL. He and Mrs. Obama then traveled to U.S. Coast Guard Station Panama City. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Bay Point Marriott Golf Resort & Spa, where they met Sasha. Later, he and Sasha swam at Alligator Point. August 15 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Sasha toured St. Andrews Bay, FL. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and Sasha returned to Washington, DC. August 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Menomonee Falls, WI, where he toured the ZBB Energy Corporation manufacturing facility. He then met with 103-year-old World War II veteran and Milwaukee resident James Edwards. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. Upon arrival at Los Angeles International Airport, he traveled to the Beverly Hilton hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to a private residence. Later, he returned to the Beverly Hilton hotel. August 17 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing, during which he was briefed on the terrorist attack in Baghdad, Iraq. He then traveled to Seattle, WA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Columbus, OH, arriving in the evening. He then traveled to the Westin Columbus Hotel. The White House announced that the President will participate in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit on November 19 and 20 in Lisbon, Portugal. The White House announced that the President will participate in a summit with European Union leaders, European Council President Herman Van Rompuy, and European Commission President Jose Manuel Durao Barroso on November 20 in Lisbon, Portugal. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes from June 12 through July 31. August 18 In the morning, the President traveled to the home of Rhonda and Joe Weithman, where he met with them and their children Rachel and Josh. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL. In the evening, at Jerry's Famous Deli, the President had dinner with Representative Kendrick B. Meek, participated in a photograph with deli staff members, and met with patrons. He then returned to Washington, DC. August 19 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Martha's Vineyard, MA. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Maria del Carmen Aponte as U.S. Ambassador El Salvador. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Elisabeth Hagen as Under Secretary for Food Safety at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Winslow Sargeant as Chief Counsel for Advocacy at the Small Business Administration. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Richard Sorian as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 22 through August 7. August 21 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. August 23 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. August 24 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had an economic briefing. August 25 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a conference call with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer, and National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers to discuss the economic situation, global financial markets situation, and efforts to strengthen the economy. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to congratulate him and his wife Samantha on the birth of their daughter, Florence Rose Endellion, and to discuss Middle East peace efforts. August 26 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. August 27 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. August 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. August 29 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to New Orleans, LA. In the afternoon, at Parkway Bakery & Tavern, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters had lunch and met with staff members and patrons. Then, at Xavier University, he met with community leaders. Later, at the Columbia Parc at the Bayou District housing development, he participated in an interview with Brian Williams of NBC Nightly News.  Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama toured the Columbia Parc housing development with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun L.S. Donovan and Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu of New Orleans, LA. They then met with Columbia Parc resident Maude Smith and her grandchildren ShaLynde Smith and David Robichaux, Jr. Later, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. Later, at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, he met with U.S. military personnel wounded in Afghanistan and Iraq and awarded 14 Purple Heart medals.   August 31 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing, during which he was briefed on the arrest of two U.S. residents by Dutch authorities upon their arrival in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on suspicion of conspiracy to commit a terrorist attack. He then traveled to Fort Bliss, TX. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with former President George W. Bush to discuss the end of combat operations and drawdown of U.S. military forces in Iraq.  Later in the morning, upon arrival at Biggs Army Airfield, the President met with U.S. military personnel and Gold Star families. Then, at the Fort Bliss mess hall, he met with U.S. military personnel. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss regional issues, Middle East peace efforts, and the end of U.S. combat operations in Iraq. September 1 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, who briefed him on the disaster preparedness efforts being made on the East Coast in advance of Hurricane Earl and the impact of Hurricane Earl on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss Middle East peace efforts, regional issues, and Jordan-U.S. relations. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to discuss Middle East peace efforts, Egypt-U.S. relations, and democracy and civil and human rights efforts in Egypt. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President hosted a working dinner with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Abbas, King Abdullah II, and President Mubarak.  The President declared an emergency in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Earl beginning on September 1 and continuing. September 2 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security team, during which Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan briefed him on the Vermilion 380 platform fire in the Gulf of Mexico and the subsequent Federal response efforts. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate to discuss the disaster preparedness efforts being made in advance of Hurricane Earl. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to thank him for his support of efforts to reach a comprehensive Middle East peace agreement and to discuss the next steps in encouraging further direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.  The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Earl beginning on September 1 and continuing. September 3 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The White House announced that the President will welcome Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the White House on September 7. The White House announced that the President will host a meeting with leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in New York City on September 24. September 4 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. September 5 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 6 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. September 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia. He also met with Harvard Law School Leo Gottlieb Professor of Law Elizabeth Warren to discuss the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. September 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Parma, OH. Later, at Cuyahoga Community College Western Campus, he participated in an interview with George Stephanopoulos of ABC's "Good Morning America." He then returned to Washington, DC.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. September 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he participated in a telephone interview with Tom Joyner of "The Tom Joyner Morning Show" for later broadcast and an interview with Antonieta Cadiz of La Opinion newspaper. In the afternoon, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with S. Sgt. Salvatore A. Giunta, USA, to inform him that he will be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for acts of gallantry at the risk of his life that went above and beyond the call of duty while serving as a rifle team leader with Company B, 2d Battalion (Airborne), 503d Infantry Regiment, 173d Airborne Brigade during combat operations in the Korengal Valley, Afghanistan, on October 25, 2007. September 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Mexico City to attend the bicentennial of the independence of Mexico on September 14: Hilda L. Solis (head of delegation); Carlos Pascual; Maria Otero; and Julian Castro. The President announced his intention to nominate Cameron Munter to be Ambassador to Pakistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela A. White to be Ambassador to The Gambia. The President announced his intention to nominate Sam E. Angel to be a Commissioner of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Marsha Ternus to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas M. Beck to be a member of the National Mediation Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Karen L. Braitmayer and Howard A. Rosenblum as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (U.S. Access Board). The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Board of Advisers on Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Demetria Henderson; Helen T. McAlpine; Alma Johnson Powell; E. John Rice, Jr.; and Dianne Boardley Suber. The President announced that he has designated Austan D. Goolsbee as Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers. September 11 In the morning, at 8:46 a.m., in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President participated in a moment of silence to commemorate the ninth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA.  Later in the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, at Ronald H. Brown Middle School of Technology, he participated in a service project with Armed Services YMCA volunteers for Operation Kid Comfort in honor of the National Day of Service and Remembrance. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Arnold A. Schwarzenegger of California to express his condolences for the loss of life and his concern for those recovering from injuries due to the September 9 gas line explosion in San Bruno and offered Federal assistance. September 12 In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey at the start of the 2010 FIBA World Championship game between the Turkey and U.S. basketball teams to congratulate him on the country's successful hosting of the tournament and to discuss democracy efforts in the country after its vote on the Turkish constitutional referendum. September 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fairfax, VA, where, at the home of John Nicholas and Nicole Armstrong, he met with John and Nicole and their children Trevor and Olivia. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Santiago, Chile, to attend the bicentennial of the Republic of Chile on September 18: Arturo Valenzuela (head of delegation); and Alejandro D. Wolff. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 25 to August 9. September 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, he had separate telephone conversations with several congressional candidates to discuss the primary election results. September 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, USA, incoming commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command, to thank him for his leadership of U.S. Forces—Iraq, his over 4 years of service in Iraq, and his role in supervising the drawdown of U.S. military forces in Iraq. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President held a Cabinet meeting. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and Representative George Miller. The President announced his intention to nominate Carol Fulp, Jeanne Shaheen, and Roger F. Wicker to be U.S. Representatives to the 65th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory J. Nickels to be U.S. Alternate Representative to the 65th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to appoint Marcelite J. Harris and Arlen D. Jameson as members of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations: Jill Appell; Pamela G. Bailey; C. Fred Bergsten; Bobbi Brown; Michael E. Campbell; Lisa Carty; Christopher J. Christie; Michael L. Ducker; John "Buddy" Dyer; John B. Emerson; Bill Frenzel; Dean C. Garfield; Leo W. Gerard; Joseph T. Hansen; James P. Hoffa; Robert Holleyman; Sandra Kennedy; Jim Kolbe; Fred Krupp; David Lane; Kase Lawal; Robert A. McDonald; Harold McGraw III; Wade Randlett; Robert W. Roche; Matthew Rubel; David H. Segura; Bob Stallman; John P. Surma; and Luis A. Ubinas. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from August 17–21. September 16 In the morning, the President and Vice President Joe Biden received a report on the National Export Initiative. Later, in the Oval Office, they had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Then, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Robert Menendez and Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez and Luis V. Gutierrez to discuss immigration reform. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Stamford, CT. During the day, the President met with Senator Sheldon Whitehouse. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders: Sefa Aina; Debra T. Cabrera; Kamuela J.N. Enos; Frances Eneski Francis; Farooq Kathwari; Hyeok Kim; Ramey Ko; Rozita Villanueva Lee; Sunil Puri; Amardeep Singh; Unmi Song; Dilawar A. Syed; Khampha Thephavong; Doua Thor; Hector L. Vargas, Jr.; and Hines Ward. The President announced his intention to appoint John B. Nathman and Frank E. Petersen as members of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy.  The President announced that he has nominated Charles M. Oberly III to be U.S. attorney for the District of Delaware. September 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca F. Dye and Mario Cordero to be Commissioners of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Stacia A. Hylton to be Director of the U.S. Marshals Service. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science: Carlos Castillo-Chavez; Joseph S. Francisco; Inez Fung; and Margaret Murnane. The President announced that he has appointed Elizabeth Warren as Assistant to the President and Special Adviser to the Secretary of the Treasury on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. September 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Officer, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA. Later, he visited the Reading Terminal Market. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later in the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President participated in an interview with Jose Diaz-Balart of Telemundo's "Enfoque" program. Then, on the Rose Garden Patiom he participated in an interview with Mario "Don Francisco" Kreutzberger of Univision's "Sabado Gigante" program.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with members of the Seattle Storm to congratulate them on winning the WNBA Finals for the second time and for their success during the regular season and playoffs. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to South Korea to attend the Seoul liberation commemoration ceremonies on September 27 and 28: Eric K. Shinseki (head of delegation); Kathleen Stephens; John M. McHugh; and Andrew J. Shapiro. September 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he dropped by a meeting between Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis and State insurance commissioners. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Falls Church, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he traveled to New York City. In the evening, the President traveled to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate William R. Brownfield to be Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Eugene L. Dodaro to be Comptroller General of the U.S. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew M.T. Kennedy to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Kurt W. Tong for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Senior Coordinator for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Forum. The President announced his intention to appoint Tom A. Bernstein as Chairman of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Joshua B. Bolten as Vice Chairman of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council: Matthew L. Adler; Katharine D. Dukakis; Karen Chaya Friedman; Mark D. Goodman; Ronald A. Ratner; Menachem Z. Rosensaft; and Kirk A. Rudy. September 23 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, he returned to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. In the afternoon, the President returned to U.N. Headquarters, where he attended a luncheon hosted by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations. He then traveled to the Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers, where he was joined by Mrs. Obama. Later, they returned to the Waldorf-Astoria. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the American Museum of Natural History, where they hosted a reception in honor of the heads of delegations attending the U.N. General Assembly. Later, they returned to the Waldorf-Astoria. The President announced his intention to nominate Paige Alexander to be Assistant Administrator for Europe and Eurasia at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as general trustees of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Gordon J. Davis; Fred Eychaner; Charles B. Ortner; and Penny Pritzker. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 21 through 30. September 24 In the morning, the President met with President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan. He then had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss Middle East peace efforts, the situation in Afghanistan, and Germany-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, the President participated in a photograph with Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) leaders. He then traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, he returned to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, where he met with President and Prime Minister Roza Otunbaeva of Krygyzstan. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. September 27 In the morning, in the Green Room, the President participated in an interview with Matt Lauer of NBC's "Today" show. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Albuquerque, NM, arriving in the evening. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Nigeria to attend the 50th anniversary independence celebration on October 1: Rajiv Shah (head of delegation); Johnnie Carson; James P. McAnulty; and Walter C. Jones. September 28 In the morning, the President met with Andrew and Etta Cavalier at their home. Later, he visited the Barelas Coffee House, where he met with staff members and patrons. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Madison, WI. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with former President Jimmy Carter to wish him well after a recent illness and hospitalization. Later, he visited Robert M. La Follette High School, where he met with students and faculty.  Later in the afternoon, at the Madison Concourse Hotel and Governor's Club, the President attended a Democratic National Committee finance reception. In the evening, the President participated in a radio interview with Warren Ballentine of "The Warren Ballentine Show." He then participated in a radio interview with Russ Parr of "The Russ Parr Morning Show" for later broadcast. Later, he traveled to Des Moines, IA, where he visited Baby Boomer's Cafe. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Bremen, Germany, to attend the 20th anniversary of German unity on October 3: James L. Jones, Jr. (head of delegation); Philip D. Murphy; and Robert Hormats. The President declared a major disaster in the U.S. Virgin Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement Territory recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Earl from August 29 through 31. September 29 In the morning, at the home of Jeff Clubb and Sandy Hatfield Clubb, the President met with them and their children Tristan and Skyelar.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Richmond, VA. Later, at the Southampton Recreation Association, he met with Matt and Stephanie Perry and their children Matthew and Lucy. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Arnold A. Schwarzenegger of California.  The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Green and Alan J. Patricof to be members of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Paula Barker Duffy and Martha Wagner Weinberg to be members of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate Isabel Framer to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan H. Hildreth to be Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas R. Nides to be Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Jo Ann Rooney to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Vickers to be Under Secretary for Intelligence at the Department of Defense. The President announced that he has nominated Caitlin J. Halligan to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Jimmie V. Reyna to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Mae A. D'Agostino to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated R. Brooke Jackson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has nominated William C. Eldridge to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Arkansas. The President announced that he has nominated Kenneth F. Bohac to be U.S. marshal for the Central District of Illinois. September 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Democratic congressional leaders. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to inform him that the U.S. Senate provided its advice and consent to the U.S.-United Kingdom Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty on the evening of September 29 and to discuss counterterrorism cooperation efforts and Middle East peace efforts. October 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss Russia's progress towards entry into the World Trade Organization, the prospects of their legislatures approving the new strategic arms reduction treaty, Iran's compliance with its international obligations, and the upcoming independence referenda in Southern Sudan. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, at the Supreme Court, the President attended Associate Justice Elena Kagan's investiture ceremony. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Alvaro Colom Caballeros of Guatemala to express his deepest regrets regarding a U.S. Public Heath Service study on sexually transmitted diseases in the 1940s that infected Guatemalan citizens without their knowledge or consent, and to reassure him of the United States commitment to ethical medical practices.  October 2 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Camp David, MD. October 3 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. October 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he  had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss U.S.-Afghan relations, recent Afghan parliamentary elections, and regional elections. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to appoint James Q. Crowe as Chairman of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint Maggie Wilderotter as Vice Chairman of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The President announced his attention to appoint Donna A. James as Chairperson of the National Women's  Business Council. The President declared a major disaster in Arizona and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 20 through August 7. October 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a bill signing ceremony for S. 1055, awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to the Army's 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442d Regimental Combat Team. October 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. He then traveled to Cresskill, NJ. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Rafael Correa Delgado of Ecuador to discuss U.S. support for Ecuador's democratic institutions. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in bill signing ceremonies for H.R. 553, the Reducing Over-Classification Act, and H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Bowie, MD. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a dinner for senatorial candidate Alexi Giannoulias. He then returned to Washington, DC. October 8 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Fredrick Reinfeldt of Sweden to congratulate him on his reelection. Then , also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Bladensburg, MD, where he toured Ernest Maier, Inc. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. October 9 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. October 10 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with Cabinet members, former Secretaries of Transportation, Governors, and mayors to discuss infrastructure investment. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the students profiled in the documentary "Waiting for Superman." Later, he traveled to Miami, FL. In the evening, the President visited El Mago De Las Fritas restaurant. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President and White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett dropped by a meeting of African American journalist and bloggers. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minster David Cameron of the United Kingdom to express his condolences on the loss of British aid worker Linda Norgrove, who was kidnapped in Afghanistan on September 26, and was killed during a rescue attempt by U.S. and Afghan special forces. October 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship's National Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge finalists. Later, he met with actor and activist George Clooney. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President attended a briefing by Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano and Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration John S. Pistole on transportation security. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia to congratulate him on his reelection. The President announced his intention to appoint John W. Rogers, Jr., as Chair of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability. The President announced his intention to appoint Lorraine Cole as Vice Chair of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability: Roland A. Arteaga; Theodore Beck; John Hope Bryant; Samuel T. Jackson; Richard Ketchum; Beth Kobliner; Addison Barry Rand; Amy Rosen; Carrie Schwab-Pomerantz; and Kenneth Wade. October 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on September 22 and continuing. October 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile to congratulate him on the rescue of 33 miners trapped in the San Jose mine in Copiapo, Chile, since August 5. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and straight-line winds on September 16. The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and straight-line winds associated with Tropical Storm Nicole from September 27 through October 1. October 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Wilmington, DE, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. October 16 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 17 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Cleveland, OH.  In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Columbus, OH, where, at Ohio State University, they attended a private fundraiser for the Democratic National Committee. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. October 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, in the State Dining Room, he viewed projects exhibited for a White House science fair. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss global security and ongoing counterterrorism cooperation. October 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. October 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the ongoing situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President taped an antibullying message for the It Gets Better Project. He then met with the Pakistani delegation to the U.S.-Pakistan Strategic Dialogue. He then traveled to Portland, OR, where, at the Oregon Convention Center, he attended a private fundraiser for gubernatorial candidate John A. Kitzhaber. In the evening, the President traveled to Seattle, WA. October 21 In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to Atherton, CA, where, at a private residence, he attended a fundraiser for District Attorney Kamala D. Harris. October 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the afternoon, at Piolin Productions Studios in Glendale, CA, the President participated in an interview with Eddie "Piolin" Sotelo of Univision's "Piolin por la Manana" program. Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a fundraiser for Senator Harry Reid. The President announced his intention to appoint Denis R. McDonough to be Deputy National Security Adviser. October 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, at a Democratic campaign rally, the President joined by Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi. Later in the evening, the President and Speaker Pelosi traveled to Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport where they met with Richard and Gloria Cauley, parents of Specialist George W. Cauley, USA of Walker, MN, who was killed in Afghanistan on October 10. Later, he and Speaker Pelosi returned to Washington, DC. October 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.  Later, in the Oval Office, the President participated in separate phone interviews for the morning radio shows of Tom Joyner, Rickey Smiley, and Yolanda Adams. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Warwick, RI. He then traveled to Woonsocket, RI, where he toured American Cord & Webbing Co., Inc. In the evening, the President traveled to Providence, RI. Later in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC. October 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. He then had a telephone conversation with President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan to discuss the progress made during the recent U.S.-Pakistan Strategic Dialogue and to reinforce the U.S. commitment to partner with Pakistan on economic, development, and governance priorities. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in separate phone interviews for the radio shows of Rev. Al Sharpton, Steve Harvey, and April Ryan. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President declared a major disaster in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides from October 4 through 8. October 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by an economic briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in an interview with radio host Michael Smerconish. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in a blogger roundtable discussion.  In the evening, at the Harman Center for the Arts, the President participated in an interview with Jon Stewart of Comedy Central's "The Daily Show." October 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with American rescue workers involved with freeing 33 trapped miners in San Jose, Chile. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President had an economic briefing. In the evening, the President participated in a telephone conference call with Young Democrats of America and College Democrats of America. He then made telephone remarks to separate telephone town hall meetings hosted by Senators Barbara Boxer, Harry Reid, and Michael F. Bennet. Later in the evening, the President was informed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan of potential terrorist threats originating from Yemen. In response, he directed U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies and the Department of Homeland Security to take necessary security measures. He received additional updates throughout the evening. October 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Beltsville, MD, where he toured Stromberg Metal Works, Inc. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had a telephone conversation with former President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa to discuss the situation in Sudan. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security team to discuss the discovery of explosive devices aboard U.S.-bound flights. In the evening, the President traveled to Andrews Air Force Base, MD. He then traveled to Charlottesville, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. October 30 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the explosive devices found aboard airplanes bound for the U.S. and ongoing counterterrorism efforts. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA. In the afternoon, at the Famous 4th Street Delicatessen, the President had lunch and visited with patrons. He then traveled to Bridgeport, CT. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL, arriving in the evening. October 31 In the morning, at Valois restaurant, the President had breakfast with Governor Patrick J. Quinn III of Illinois and Illinois senatorial candidate Alexi Giannoulias and visited with patrons. He then traveled to Cleveland, OH. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted trick-or-treaters. Later, they hosted a Halloween reception for military families and local students. November 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. He then participated in separate telephone interviews with radio personalities Patty Jackson of WDAS in Philadelphia, PA; Faith Daniels of WMOJ in Cincinnati, OH; and Bailey Coleman of WKKV in Milwaukee, WI. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Dilma Rousseff of Brazil to congratulate her on her election victory and discuss Brazil-U.S. relations. Later, he participated in separate telephone interviews for the radio shows of Michael Baisden, Ryan Seacrest, Russ Parr, and Steve Harvey. He also participated in separate telephone interviews with radio personalities Michael Perry and Larry Price of KSSK in Honolulu, HI; and Lorenzo "Ice Tea" Thomas of WEDR in Miami, FL. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Democratic volunteers and activists in Florida, New Hampshire, New Mexico, and Hawaii. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to discuss the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit and the South Korea-U.S. free trade agreement. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Bridgetown, Barbados, to attend the funeral of Prime Minister David Thompson on November 30: Gil Kerlikowske (head of delegation); D. Brent Hardt; and Eugene Gray. November 2 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by an economic briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen to discuss ongoing counterterrorism efforts and Yemen-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he Then, also in the Oval Office, he participated in separate telephone interviews with radio personalities Kurt "Big Boy" Alexander of KPWR in Los Angeles, CA; and Loni Swain of WGCI Chicago, IL. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in separate telephone interviews with radio personalities JoJo of WSOL in Jacksonville, FL; and J Noise and Krayzie Kat of KVEG in Las Vegas, NV. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with members of the San Francisco Giants to congratulate the team on winning the World Series. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President participated in separate telephone interviews with Doug Banks  of the Doug Banks Radio Show and radio personality Cliff Kelley of WVON in Chicago, IL. Late in the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Representatives Nancy Pelosi, John A. Boehner, and Steny H. Hoyer and Senator Addison M. "Mitch" McConnell. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, local, and tribal recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on September 22 and 23. November 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands to congratulate him on the formation of his Cabinet and discuss Netherlands-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. November 4 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. November 5 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Mumbai, India. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina to offer his condolences on the death of her husband, former President Nestor C. Kirchner of Argentina.  The President announced the appointment of Mimi A. Drew, Dave Stewart, and Garret Graves as State representatives of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force. The President declared a major disaster in the U.S. Virgin Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement Territory efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides associated with Tropical Storm Otto from October 1 through 8. November 6 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Mumbai, India. While en route to the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, he met with President's Export Council Chair W. James McNerney, Jr. Upon arrival at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, they toured a memorial to victims of the November 26, 2008, terrorist attacks and signed the guest book. They then visited the Mani Bhavan Gandhi Sangrahalaya museum. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Trident Nariman Point hotel. Later, he traveled to the Taj Mahal Palace hotel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico to discuss counternarcotics efforts and Mexico-U.S. relations. November 7 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Holy Name High School, where they visited students and attended a Diwali lamp lighting ceremony and performance. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New Delhi, India. Later, at the U.S. Embassy, they met with U.S. Embassy staff. Then they toured Emperor Humayun's tomb. In the evening, at the Prime Minister's residence, the President met with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. Later, also at the Prime Minister's residence, he and Mrs. Obama attended a dinner hosted by Prime Minister Singh and his wife Gursharan Kaur. They then traveled to the ITC Maurya hotel. November 8 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Raj Ghat, where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. Then, at Hyderabad House, he met with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. In the afternoon, at the Hyderabad House, the President stopped by a meeting of business leaders. Later, at ITC Maurya hotel, he met separately with Vice President Mohammad Hamid Ansari of India, Leader of the Opposition (lower House) Sushma Swaraj, and Indian National Congress Party President Member of Parliament (lower House) Sonia Gandhi, president of the Indian National Congress Party and chairperson of the ruling United Progressive Alliance parliamentary coalition. He then traveled to Parliament House. In the evening, at Rashtrapati Bhavan, the President and Mrs. Obama met with President Pratibha Devisingh Patil of India. They then traveled to the ITC Maurya hotel. November 9 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Jakarta, Indonesia, arriving in the afternoon. They then traveled to the Istana Merdeka, where they participated in an arrival ceremony with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia and his wife Kristani Herrawati and signed the visitor's book. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Shangri-La Hotel. They then traveled to the Istana Negara. Later, they returned to the Shangri-La Hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Sue K. Brown to be Ambassador to Montenegro. The President announced his intention to nominate David L. Carden to be U.S. Representative to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced that he has appointed Stephen E. Condrey as Chairman of the Federal Salary Council. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the Federal Salary Council: Lou Cannon, Jeffery David Cox, Rex L. Facer, Bill Fenaughty, Colleen Kelley, and Jacqueline Simon. November 10 In the morning, at the Shangri-La Hotel, the President and Mrs. Obama met with U.S. Embassy staff. They then toured the Istiqlal Mosque.  Later in the morning, the President traveled to the University of Indonesia. He then traveled to Seoul, South Korea, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to the Grand Hyatt Seoul hotel. November 11 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to U.S. Army Garrison—Yongsan, where he participated in a Veterans Day wreath-laying ceremony. In the afternoon, at the Blue House, the President had a working lunch with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. Later, he traveled to the Grand Hyatt Hotel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi of Iraq to discuss the formation of Iraq's coalition Government. He also received a briefing from U.S. Ambassador to Iraq James F. Jeffrey on the formation of Iraq's coalition Government. In the evening, at the National Museum of Korea, the President attended a Group of Twenty (G–20) summit welcome reception and working dinner. He then traveled to the Grand Hyatt Seoul hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric G. Postel to be Assistant Administrator for Economic Growth, Agriculture, and Trade at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Frances Gulland to be a member of the Marine Mammal Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Roberto R. Herencia and James A. Torrey to be members of the Board of Directors at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. November 12 In the morning, the President traveled to the  Coex Center, where he participated in two plenary sessions at the Group of Twenty (G–20) summit. Later, he participated in a photograph with G–20 leaders. He then participated in a third plenary session at the G–20 summit. In the afternoon, at the Coex Center, the President attended the Group of Twenty (G–20) summit working lunch. He then participated in two plenary sessions at the G–20 summit. In the evening, the President traveled to Yokohama, Japan. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq and President Masoud Barzani of the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Government to congratulate them on steps taken to form a coalition Government. Upon arrival in Yokohama, Japan, he traveled to the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Smith, Jr., to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. November 13 In the morning, the President traveled to the Yokohama Royal Park Hotel. He then returned to the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel. In the afternoon, at the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel, the President participated in a working lunch and leaders' retreat with the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). Later, he traveled to the Pacifico Yokohama Conference Center, where he attended a meeting with the APEC Business Advisory Council.  He then returned to the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the Pacifico Yokohama Conference Center, where he viewed technology exhibits and cultural performances and participated in a photo opportunity with leaders of APEC. Later, he met briefly with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada.  He then attended a dinner reception for APEC leaders. Later in the evening, the President returned to the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel.  November 14 In the morning, at the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel, the President attended the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) closing retreat.  He then participated in a meeting and photo opportunity with Trans-Pacific Partnership leaders. In the afternoon, also at the InterContinental Yokohama Grand hotel, the President attended the APEC declaration ceremony followed by the APEC closing lunch. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Kamakura, Japan, where he toured the Kotoku-in temple and visited the Great Buddha of Kamakura statue. Later, he traveled to Washington, DC, crossing the international date line and arriving in the afternoon. November 15 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with his senior advisers and Vice President Joe Biden to discuss tax cuts and the economy. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to discuss tax cut extensions for the middle class. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel L. Shields III to be the U.S. Ambassador to Brunei. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph M. Torsella  to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew Traver to be Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to appoint Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel to be a member of the American Battle Monuments Commission. November 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers to assess progress in Iraq.  Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he had an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted Medal of Honor recipient Staff Sgt. Salvatore Giunta, USA, and his family. Later, he met with Senator Robert Menendez and Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez and Nydia M. Velazquez of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to discuss options for immigration reform.  Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to appoint Mark C. Alexander, Mark Brzezinski, Lisa M. Caputo, and Shelby F. Lewis to be members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. November 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden, during which he wished Vice President Biden an early happy birthday. Then, the President dropped by a meeting between White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett and leading women's rights advocates to express his appreciation for their work and to reaffirm his commitment to eliminate wage disparity.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.  The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to the Holy See to attend a ceremony elevating Vatican Chief Justice Archbishop Raymond Burke and Archbishop Donald Wuerl to the College of Cardinals on November 20–21: Miguel H. Diaz (head of delegation); and Daniel M. Rooney. The President announced his intention to nominate Ryan C. Crocker and Sim Farar to be members of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. The President announced his intention to appoint Benjamin Cardin and John Cornyn to be members of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth Young McNally to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy.   The President announced that he has nominated Cathy Bissoon to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.  The President announced that he has nominated Vincent L. Briccetti to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.  The President announced that he has nominated Roy B. Dalton, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida.  The President announced that he has nominated Sara Lynn Darrow to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois.  The President announced that he has nominated John A. Kronstadt to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.  The President announced that he has nominated Kevin H. Sharp to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee.  The President announced that he has nominated Charles E. Andrews to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Alabama.  The President announced that he has nominated Darrell J. Bell to be U.S. marshal for the District of Montana.  The President announced that he has nominated William B. Berger, Sr., to be U.S. marshal for the Middle District of Florida.  The President announced that he has nominated Russel E. Burger to be U.S. marshal for the District of Oregon.  The President announced that he has nominated Joseph C. Moore to be U.S. marshal for the District of Wyoming.  The President announced that he has nominated Edwin D. Sloane and Esteban Soto III to be U.S. marshals for the District of Columbia.  The President announced that he has nominated S. Amanda Marshall to be U.S. attorney for the District of Oregon.  November 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President received an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting hosted by Vice President Joe Biden to discuss U.S. national security interests in the new START Treaty.  Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. Later in the morning, the President met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, n the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the evening, the President traveled to Lisbon, Portugal, arriving the following morning. November 19 In the morning, upon arrival at the Lisbon International Airport, the President traveled to the Lisbon Marriott Hotel, where he met with U.S. Embassy staff. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Belem National Palace in Lisbon, where he attended an arrival ceremony with President Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal and signed the Palace guest book.  Then, he and President Cavaco Silva participated in a working lunch. Later, he traveled to Feria Internacional de Lisboa to attend an arrival reception for North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) leaders followed by NATO Advisory Council opening and working sessions. During the day, the President met with President Abdullah Gul of Turkey to discuss new NATO capabilities to respond to 21st-century challenges. In the evening, also at the Feria Internacional de Lisboa, the President participated in a photo opportunity for NATO leaders.  He then met with President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia to discuss strengthening bilateral relations and increasing cooperation between the two countries. Later, he attended the NATO Advisory Council working dinner. November 20 In the morning, the President traveled to the Feria Internacional de Lisboa, where he attended the opening and working sessions of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) meeting on Afghanistan. Later, in an adjoining convention hall, he visited a display of the Opel Ampera, an electric vehicle made by General Motors Co. In the afternoon, at the Feria Internacional de Lisboa, the President attended a North Atlantic Council working session. Later, he participated in the opening and working sessions of the NATO-Russia Council. He then met separately with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss the President's November 19 meeting with President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia and the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) negotiations. Later in the afternoon, at the Feria Internacional de Lisboa, the President met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. He then traveled to the Portuguese Pavilion, where he participated in the official photograph for the European Union-United States summit and attended the summit meeting. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland to the White House on December 8. November 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Kokomo, IN. In the afternoon, at a Kokomo Fire Department station, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch and visited local firefighters. Then, at Sycamore Elementary School, they met with students and faculty. Later, at the Chrysler Indiana Transmission Plant II, they toured the facility and met with employees. Later in the afternoon, at the Gingerbread House Bakery, the President and Vice President Biden visited with patrons. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations and the King's medical treatment in the U.S. In the evening, the President met with his national security team to discuss the situation in the Korean Peninsula. He then had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to discuss South Korea-U.S. relations and the North Korean artillery attack on Yeonpyeoung Island. November 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the afternoon, at Martha's Table, Inc., the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia, handed out Thanksgiving groceries to families. The President declared a major disaster in the U.S. Virgin Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement Territory recovery efforts in the area struck by sever storms, flooding, rockslides, and mudslides associated with Tropical Strom Tomas from November 8 through 12. November 25 In the morning, the President had Thanksgiving holiday telephone conversations with 10 U.S. servicemembers serving in Afghanistan and Iraq. November 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., chief executive officer Michael T. Duke. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff. November 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Private Dining Room, they met with bipartisan congressional leaders. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Nobel laureates. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. December 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Mayor-elect Vincent C. Gray of the District of Columbia. The President announced his intention to nominate Janice Lehrer-Stein to be a member of the National Council on Disability.  The President announced his intention to appoint Richard J. Danzig and Daniel Meltzer as members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. The President announced that he has nominated Arenda L. Wright  Allen to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Claire C. Cecchi and Esther Salas to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The President announced that he has nominated Mark R. Hornak to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated Robert D. Mariani to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated John A. Ross to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Michael F. Urbanski to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Bernice B. Donald to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Christopher R. Thyer to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas. December 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Governor Theodore Strickland of Ohio. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, he met with his national security team. In the evening, the President traveled to Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan, arriving the following evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn D. Sullivan to be Assistant Secretary for Observation and Prediction at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Leon Rodriguez to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to appoint David Chavern as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. December 3 In the morning, while en route to Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan, aboard Air Force One, the President met with his national security team. In the evening, upon arrival at Bagram Air Base, the President traveled to 101st Airborne Division Headquarters, where he had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Then, he met with Gen. David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry, National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan Douglas E. Lute. Later in the evening, at SSgt. Heathe N. Craig Joint Theatre Hospital on Bagram Air Base, the President met with wounded U.S. military personnel and civilian contractors and presented Purple Hearts to five servicemembers. He then met with members of Bravo Troop, 1st Squadron, 61st Calvary Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, who had six soldiers killed during a training mission on November 29 in Nangarhar Province, Afghanistan. Later, he met with U.S. Special Forces personnel. In the late evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to express condolences on the loss of life resulting from wildfires in northern Israel and to offer U.S. assistance. The President announced his intention to nominate Kelvin K. Droegemeier to be a member of the National Science Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Maurice B. Foley to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to nominate Dan Ashe to be Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service at the Department of the Interior. December 5 In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the Kennedy Center Honors Gala. Later in the evening, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hu Jintao of China to discuss North Korea, China-U.S. relations, and Iran. December 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Winston-Salem, NC. Later, at Forsyth Technical Community College, he toured classroom facilities and met with faculty and students. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. December 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing and met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Council on the Humanities: Albert J. Beveridge; Constance M. Carroll; and Cathy N. Davidson. December 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he held a Cabinet meeting. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Aaron Dworkin to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Clyde E. Terry to be a member of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee: Linda Gooden; Mark T. Greenquist; Dan Hesse; Mark McLaughlin; Paul Sagan; and Gary Smith. December 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter B. Lyons to be Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Denise E. O'Donnell to be Director of Justice Assistance at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephanie O'Sullivan to be Principal Deputy National Intelligence Director at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The President announced his intention to nominate David Shear to be Ambassador to Vietnam. The President announced his intention to appoint Harvey S. Wineberg as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability. December 10 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with former President William J. Clinton. December 11 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss Turkey-U.S. relations and President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Cancun, Mexico, and Mexico-U.S. relations. December 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President participated in separate television interviews with Emily Riemer of WSYX in Columbus, OH; Kevin Cooney of KCCI in Des Moines, IA; Adam Schrager of KUSA in Denver, CO; and Keith Cate of WFLA in St. Petersburg, FL. Later, in the South Court Auditorium at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Building, he greeted recipients of the 2009 Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers.   Later in the afternoon, at the Town Hall Education Arts Recreation Campus (THEARC), the President participated in a service project with the National Basketball Association Los Angeles Lakers and members of the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he dropped by a meeting of United Nations Security Council permanent representatives. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. December 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffet to discuss their philanthropic project, "The Giving Pledge." Later, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with the national security team to discuss Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President dropped by a meeting of the National Policy Alliance hosted by White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett to discuss the bipartisan tax agreement. The President announced his intention to appoint Patty Stonesifer as Chair of the White House Council for Community Solutions. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the White House Council for Community Solutions: Byron Auguste; Diana Aviv; Paula Boggs; Jon Bon Jovi; John Bridgeland; James Canales; Scott Cowen; John Donahoe; Michael Fleming; David Friedman; Jim Gibbons; Michele Jolin; Michael Kempner; Steven Lerner; Maruice Lim Miller; Laurene Powell Jobs; Norman Rice; Kristin Richmond; Judith Rodin; Nancy H. Rubin; Paul Schmitz; Jill Schumann; Bobbi Silten; and Bill Strickland. December 15 In the morning, at the Blair House, the President met with business leaders to discuss the national economy. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. During the day, the President met with American Indian tribal leaders. The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn Lerner to be Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel. The President announced his intention to appoint Timothy Broas as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. December 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the South Court Auditorium of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Building, the President greeted recipients of the 2009 Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching. In the evening, in the Map Room, the President met with Organizing for America volunteers. The President announced his intention to nominate Elisebeth Collins Cook  and James X. Dempsey to be a members of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Kevin J. Kennedy as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. December 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with the labor organizations leaders to discuss the national economy. December 18 During the day, the President had telephone conversations with Members of Congress to discuss legislation to repeal the Department of Defense's "don't ask, don't tell" policy. December 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a bill signing ceremony for S. 3817, the CAPTA Reauthorization Act of 2010. The President announced his intention to nominate Judy Ansley  and John A. Lancaster to be members of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace. The President announced his intention to nominate Ann Begeman to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Nils M.P. Daulaire to be Representative of the U.S. on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization. The President announced his intention to nominate Terry Lewis to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. December 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to discuss immigration reform. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss military operations and diplomatic efforts in Afghanistan, ongoing counterterrorism efforts, and United Kingdom-U.S. relations. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq on the formation of Iraq's coalition Government and Iraq-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to appoint Jerry Patterson and Alice T. Perry as State representatives of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force. The President declared a major disaster in Arizona and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from October 3 through 6. December 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria to discuss the situation in Cote d'Ivoire and First Vice President Salva Kiir Mayardit of Sudan to discuss the situation in Sudan. In the evening, the President traveled to Honolulu, HI. Later, he traveled to Kailua, HI. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Hu Jintao of China to the White House on January 19. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Brasilia, Brazil, to attend the inauguration of Dilma Rousseff as President of Brazil on January 1, 2011: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); Thomas A. Shannon; and Daniel A. Restrepo. The President announced his intention to nominate Agnes Gund to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint John Casteen as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms from December 1 through 5. December 23 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss the START Treaty and Russia-U.S. relations. December 24 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 25 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Kaneohe Bay, where, in the mess hall, they met with marines and their families. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. December 26 In the morning, the President met with members of his national security team to discuss ongoing counterterrorism efforts and the deaths of eight American citizens in a traffic accident in Aswan, Egypt. Later, he had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, who congratulated him on the passage of the new START Treaty, and to discuss the King's recovery from medical treatment in the U.S. and Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. December 27 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 29 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to recess appoint William J. Boarman as Public Printer of the U.S. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Matthew J. Bryza as Ambassador to Azerbaijan. The President announced his intention to recess appoint James M. Cole as Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Norman J. Eisen as Ambassador to the Czech Republic. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Robert Stephen Ford as Ambassador to Syria. The President announced his intention to recess appoint Francis J. Ricciardone, Jr., as Ambassador to Turkey. December 30 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 31 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Names: Abbas, Mahmoud; Abbas, Mahmoud (Abu Mazen); Abd Al-Mahdi, Adil; Acevedo, Thomas R.; Adams, Yolanda; Adler, Matthew L.; Aina, Sefa; Albert, Marv; Albright, Madeleine K.; Alemayehou, Mimi E.; Alexander, Kurt "Big Boy"; Alexander, Mark C.; Alexander, Paige; Ali, Lonnie; Aliyev, Ilham; Allawi, Ayad; Allen, Anita L.; Allen, Thad W.; Almonte, Robert R.; Amaya, Jose Miguel; Amos, James F.; Andrew, Anne S.; Andrews, Charles E.; Andringa, Mary Vermeer; Angel, Sam E.; Ansari, Mohammad Hamid; Ansley, Judith A.; Aponte, Maria del Carmen; Appell, Jill; Aquino, Benigno S., III; Armstrong, Nicole; Arras, John D.; Arreaga-Rodas, Luis E.; Arteaga, Roland A.; Arvizu, Alexander A.; Asali, Ziad; Ashe, Dan; Atkinson, Barbara; Auguste, Byron; Auriemma, Geno; Aviv, Diana; Ayers, Stephen T.; Bachelet Jeria, Michelle; Bacow, Lawrence S.; Bagley, Elizabeth Frawley ; Baier, Bret; Bailey, Derek J.; Bailey, Pamela G.; Baisden, Michael; Bajnai, Gordon; Balkenende, Jan Peter; Ball, Deborah L.; Ballentine, Warren; Balzer, JoAnn L.; Ban Ki-moon; Banks, Doug; Bansal, Preeta D.; Barak, Ehud; Barber, Dan; Barbour, Haley R.; Barbour, Marsha; Barrera, Roberto; Barzani, Masoud; Basescu, Traian; Bass-Bookey, Pamela; Bastian, Bruce; Battaglia, Anthony J.; Baucus, Max S.; Baylor, Arthur D.; Beck, Theodore; Beck, Thomas M.; Becker, Craig; Beebe, Michael D.; Beebe, Mickey D.; Begeman, Ann D.; Beinecke, Frances G.; Bell, Colleen; Bell, Darrell J.; Benjamin, Regina M.; Benjaminson, Eric D.; Bennet, Michael F.; Berger, William B., Sr.; Bergsten, Fred; Bernanke, Ben S.; Bernstein, Tom A.; Berrien, Jacqueline A.; Bersin, Alan; Bersin, Alan D.; Berwick, Donald M.; Beshear, Steven L.; Beveridge, Albert J., III; Biden, Catherine E. "Jean" Finnegan; Biden, Jill; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Biden, Joseph R., Jr. ; Biden, Joseph, R., Jr.; Bilyeu, Dana K.; Bissoon, Cathy; Biswal, Nisha Desai; Blackwood, Ann S.; Bladel, Michael R. ; Blakely, Allison; Bloomberg, Michael R.; Boarman, William J.; Boasberg, James E.; Boehner, John A.; Boesch, Donald; Boggs, Paula; Bohac, Kenneth F.; Bolten, Joshua B.; Bon Jovi, Jon; Bond, Michele T.; Boness, Daryl J.; Bonosaro, Carol A.; Borissov, Boyko; Borras, Rafael; Boulware, Mark M.; Bowen, M. Scott; Bowles, Erskine B.; Boxer, Barbara; Braitmayer, Karen L.; Bredar, James K.; Bredesen, Philip N., Jr.; Brees, Drew; Brehm, Edward W. ; Brennan, John O.; Brewer, Janice K.; Briccetti, Vincent L.; Bridgeland, John; Bridgewater Awkard, Pamela E.; Broas, Timothy; Bromwich, Michael R.; Brooks, T. Garth; Brown, Bobbi; Brown, Gordon; Brown, Scott P.; Brown, Sherrod; Brown, Sue K.; Browner, Carol M.; Brownfield, William R.; Bruni-Sarkozy, Carla; Bruschi, Tedy; Bryant, John H.; Bryk, Anthony S.; Bryza, Matthew J.; Brzezinski, Mark; Buckley, David B.; Buckley, Sean P. "Jack"; Buffet, Warren E.; Buffet, Warren F.; Bunch, Lonnie; Burger, Russel E.; Burke, Raymond Archbishop; Burns, Stephanie A.; Burns, Ursula M.; Bush, George H.W.; Bush, George W.; Butterfield, Robin A.; Cabrera, Debra T.; Cadiz, Antonieta; Calderon Hinojosa, Felipe de Jesus; Calipari, John; Cameron, David; Cameron, Florence R.E.; Cameron, Samantha; Camp, Beatrice; Campbell, Michael E.; Camunez, Michael C.; Canales, James; Candelaria, Conrad E.; Cannon, Lou; Caplin, Michael A.; Caputo, Lisa M.; Carden, David L.; Cardin, Benjamin; Carl, Loren; Carney, Susan L.; Carr, Kevin A.; Carroll, Constance M.; Carson, Johnnie; Carter, James E., Jr.; Carter, Philip, III; Carty, Lisa; Casey, Robert P., Jr.; Casper, Denise J.; Cass, Ronald A.; Casteen, John; Castillo-Chavez, Carlos; Castro, Julian; Cate, Keith; Cauley, Gloria; Cauley, Richard; Cavaco Silva, Anibal; Cavalier, Andrew; Cavalier, Etta; Cazayoux, Donald J.; Cecchi, Claire C.; Chang, Edmond E-Min; Chatigny, Robert N.; Chavern, David; Cheney, Dick; Chinchilla, Laura; Christie, Christopher J.; Christman, Rick; Chu, Steven; Clark, James E.; Clark, Robert G.; Clarkson, Charles A.; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, Hillary Rodham ; Clinton, William J.; Clooney, George; Close, Chuck; Clubb, Jeff; Clubb, Sandy Hatfield; Clubb, Skyelar; Clubb, Tristan; Coakley, Martha; Cogburn, Max O., Jr.; Cole, James M.; Cole, Lorraine; Coleman, Bailey; Coleman, Sharon J.; Colom Caballeros, Alvaro; Condrey, Stephen E.; Coney, Lester; Conkling, Philip; Connelly, Maura; Cook, Elisebeth Collins; Cook, Robert B.; Cook, Susan D. Johnson; Cooney, Kevin; Coppola, John; Cordero, Mario; Cornyn, John; Coronado, Irasema; Correa Delgado, Rafael; Cote, David; Couric, Katie; Cowen, Brian; Cowen, Scott; Cox, Jeffery D.; Coyle, Philip E., III; Crandall, Russell C.; Crist, Charles J., Jr.; Crocker, Ryan C.; Crowe, James Q.; Cuellar, Mariano-Florentino; Cutter, Stephanie; Daalder, Ivo H.; D'Agostino, Mae A.; Dalai Lama Tenzin Gyatso; Dalton, Roy B., Jr.; Daniels, Faith; Danzig, Richard J.; Darling, Martha A.; Darrow, Sara Lynn; Daulaire, Nils; Daulaire, Nils M.P.; Davidson, Cathy N.; Davila, Edward J.; Davis, Gordon J.; Davis, Scott; Davis, Sylvia; Dawes, Dominique; Day, Charles B.; DeGuilio, Jon E.; Delahanty, Thomas E., II; Dempsey, James X.; Diamond, Peter; Diamonstein-Spielvogel, Barbaralee; Diaz, Miguel H.; Diaz-Balart, Jose; Dickert, John; Dodaro, Eugene L.; Dodd, Christopher J.; Dombrovskis, Vladis; Donahoe, John; Donald, Bernice B.; Donaldson, Milford W.; Doney, Scott C.; Donilon, Thomas E.; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; Dorgan, Byron L.; Dorgan, Darrell; Dougan, William; Dougherty, J. Thomas; Douglas, James H.; Drew, Mimi A.; Droegemeier, Kelvin K.; Drusina, Edward; Ducker, Michael L.; Duffy, Laura E.; Duffy, Pam; Duffy, Paula B.; Dukakis, Katharine D.; Duke, Michael T.; DuMont, Edward C.; Duncan, Arne; Dunne, Charles G.; Duong, David; Durao Barroso, Jose Manuel; Durbin, Richard J.; Dworkin, Aaron P.; Dye, Rebecca F.; Dyer, John "Buddy"; Edelman, Todd E.; Edwards, Carl; Edwards, James; Eikenberry, Karl W.; Eisen, Norman J.; Eisen, Norman L.; Eldridge, William C.; Emanuel, Rahm; Emerson, John B.; English, Charles L.; Enos, Kamuela J.N.; Entwistle, James F.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Erdogan, Recep Tyyip; Ericks, Mark L.; Estrada, John L.; Eychaner, Fred; Facer, Rex L.; Faivre-Davis, Sara L.; Farahany, Nita A.; Farar, Sim; Faughnan, Joseph P., Sr.; Feierstein, Gerald M.; Feierstein, Mark; Fein, David; Feinerman, Gary S.; Feinstein, Lee A.; Feldblum, Chai R.; Felix, Allyson; Fenaughty, Bill; Fergin, Judith R.; Fernandez de Kirchner, Cristina; Fernandez Reyna, Leonel; Fernandez, Jose W.; Ferrer, Wifredo A.; Fico, Robert; Filler, Michael B.; Finley, Stephanie A.; Fischer, Jan; Fitzpatrick, Michael; Fleissig, Audrey Goldstein; Fleming, Michael; Foley, James B.; Foley, Maurice B.; Fong, Ivan K.; Foote, Elizabeth Erny; Foote, Evelyn; Ford, Robert S.; Forestal, Kerry; Fortuno, Luis G.; Foster, John D.; Framer, Isabel; Francis, Frances Eneski; Francisco, Joseph S.; Frank, Barney; Frenzel, Bill; Friedman, David; Friedman, Karen Chaya; Friedman, Richard L.; Friedrich, Dabney L.; Fudge, Ann; Fugate, W. Craig; Fulgham, Alonzo; Fulp, Carol; Fung, Inez; Gaer, Felice D.; Gage, John; Gamoran, Adam; Gandhi, Sonia; Garcia Perez, Alan; Garcia, Terry D.; Garfield, Dean C.; Garver, Geoffrey; Garza, Alexander G.; Gaskins, Gary M.; Gates, Becky; Gates, Melinda F.; Gates, Robert M.; Gates, William H. "Bill," III; Gehl, Katherine M.; Geithner, Timothy F.; Genachowski, Julius; Genachowski, Julius M.; Gerard, Leo W.; Giannoulias, Alexi; Giannoulis, Alexi; Gibbons, Jim; Gibney, John A., Jr.; Gilani, Syed Yousuf Raza; Gillard, Julia; Gillard, Julia E.; Giunta, Salvatore A.; Glenn, John H., Jr.; Goldberg, Robert; Golden, Thelma; Goldman, Jill; Goldring, Fred; Goldsmith, Mark A.; Goldstein, Jeffrey; Gonzales, Kenneth J.; Gooden, Linda; Goodman, Mark D.; Goodwin, R. Booth, II; Goolsbee, Austan D.; Gordon, Philip H.; Gotbaum, Joshua; Gottlieb, Howard; Gottlieb, Howard L.; Grady, Christine; Graham, Lindsey O.; Graham, William F. "Billy"; Gratacos Munet, Osvaldo Luis; Gration, J. Scott; Graves, Garret; Graves, James E., Jr.; Gray, Eugene; Gray, Vincent C.; Green, Mark; Green, Mark F.; Greenquist, Mark T.; Gregg, Judd A.; Gregoire, Christine O.; Griffon, Mark A.; Grissom, Barry R.; Grubb, David; Gul, Abdullah; Gullard, Frances M.D.; Gund, Agnes; Gunderson, Steven; Gutierrez, Kris D.; Gutierrez, Luis V.; Gutman, Howard W.; Haag, Melinda L.; Hagen, Elisabeth; Hagen, Elisabeth A.; Hale, David J.; Hale, Gene; Hall, Beverly L.; Hall, Katelyn; Halligan, Caitlin J.; Hambrecht, William R.; Hamburg, Margaret A.; Hammack, Katherine G.; Hammonds, Evelynn M.; Hansen, Joseph T. ; Harding, Robert A.; Hardt, D. Brent; Hariri, Sa'ad al-Din al-; Harkin, Thomas R.; Harper, Stephen; Harrington, Anne M.; Harris, Kamala D.; Harris, Marcelite J.; Harrison, Kevin C.; Hartley, Jane; Harvard, Beverly J.; Harvey, Broderick "Steve"; Harvey, Charlene; Harvey, Kerry B.; Harvey, Steve; Harvey, William R.; Hashimi, Tariq al-; Hatch, Orrin G.; Hatfield, Jonathan A.; Hatoyama, Yukio; Hauser, Stephen L.; Hayden, Carla D.; Height, Dorothy I.; Henderson, Demetria; Henrikson, C. Robert; Henry, C. Bradford; Herencia, Roberto R.; Herlinsky, Victor J., Jr.; Hernandez, Marco A.; Herrawati, Kristani; Hesse, Dan; Hicks, Thomas; Hickton, David J.; Hildreth, Susan H.; Hill, Christopher R.; Hill, Clarence; Hill, Grant H.; Hirschhorn, Eric L.; Hite, William; Hockersmith, Kaki; Hoffa, James P.; Hoffman, Joshua; Hoffman, Sharon; Hogan, Beverly Wade; Hogsett, Joseph H.; Hohman, David E.; Hollander, Ellen L.; Holleyman, Robert; Holmes, Paul K., III; Holt, Gerald S.; Holt, Jeffrey T.; Holway, David; Hormats, Robert; Hornak, Mark R.; Howell, Beryl A.; Hoye, Christopher T.; Hoyer, Steny H.; Hu Jintao; Huerta, Dolores; Hunter, Thomas O.; Hurcombe, Helen; Hussain, Rashad; Hylton, Stacia A.; Iger, Robert A.; Ihlenfeld, William J., II; Ilves, Toomas Hendrik; Ireland, S. Leslie; J Noise; Jackson, Amy Berman; Jackson, Duane; Jackson, Lisa P.; Jackson, Malcolm D.; Jackson, Patty; Jackson, Phil; Jackson, R. Brooke; Jackson, Robert P.; Jackson, Samuel T.; Jackson-Dennison, Deborah; James, Donna A.; Jameson, Arlen D.; Jarrett, Valeria B.; Jarrett, Valerie B.; Jeffrey, James F.; Jenrette, Richard H.; Jeu, Joseph; Jindal, Piyush "Bobby"; Jobs, Laurene Powell; Johnson Sirleaf, Ellen; Johnson, Sheila; JoJo; Jolin, Michele; Jonathan, Goodluck; Jones, James L., Jr.; Jones, Kerri-Ann; Jones, Paul W.; Jones, Steve C.; Jones, Walter C.; Jordan, I. King; Josipovic, Ivo; Joyner, Donna Richardson; Joyner, Pamela; Joyner, Thomas; Joyner, Tom; Junemann, Gregory; Junkins, Lowell; Kaczynska, Maria; Kaczynski, Lech; Kaczynski, Lech ; Kagan, Elena; Kaine, Timothy M.; Kalinske, David; Kan, Naoto; Karzai, Hamid; Kathwari, Farooq; Kaur, Gursharan; Kaye, Charles R.; Kelley, Cliff; Kelley, Colleen; Kelley, Colleen M.; Kellogg, Clark; Kelly, Craig A.; Kempner, Michael; Kennedy, Kevin J.; Kennedy, Matthew M.T.; Kennedy, Michael D.; Kennedy, Sandra; Kenney, Kristie A.; Kent, Roman R.; Kerlikowske, Gil; Kerry, John F.; Kesteloot, James M.; Ketchum, Richard; Kidder, Rolland; Kiir Mayardit, Salva; Killian, William C.; Kim, Hyeok; Kindler, Jeffrey; King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; King Abdullah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; King Abdullah II; King Juan Carlos; King Juan Carlos I; King, Betty E.; King, Billie Jean; King, Larry; Kippen, Colin; Kirk, Ron; Kitzhaber, John A.; Klass, Richard L.; Klaus, Vaclav; Klobuchar, Amy; Ko, Ramey; Kobayashi, Leslie E.; Kobliner, Beth; Koch, Steven; Koh, Lucy Haeran; Kolbe, Jim; Komorowski, Bronislaw; Kondracke, Marguerite W.; Korrell, Harry; Kosor, Jadranka; Krayzie Kat; Kreutzberger, Mario "Don Francisco"; Krol, George A.; Kronstadt, John A.; Krupp, Fred; Krzyzewski, Mike; Kubilius, Andrius; Kucherlapati, Raju; Kvien, Kristina A.; Kwan, Michelle; Kwok, Daphne; Kyl, Jon L.; LaFleur, Cheryl A.; Lahiri, Jhumpa; LaHood, Ray H.; Lamar, Cynthia Chavez; Lancaster, John A.; Landrieu, Mitchell J.; Lane, David; Lane, Jeffrey A.; Langevin, James; Lauer, Matt; Lavizzo-Mourey, Risa; Lawal, Kase; Leahy, Patrick J.; Lee Myung-bak; Lee, Rozita Villanueva; Lehrer-Stein, Janice; LeMieux, George S.; Leon-Guerrero, Frank; Leonhart, Michele M.; Lerner, Carolyn; Lerner, Steven; Levin, Fay Hartog; Lew, Jacob J.; Lew, Jacob J. "Jack"; Lewis, Edward; Lewis, James A.; Lewis, Reginald; Lewis, Shelby F.; Lewis, Terry; Lewis, Yvette; Likins, Rose M.; Limtiaco, Alicia A.G.; Lin, Maya; Lindborg, Nancy E.; Linick, Steve A.; Lipnic, Victoria A.; Liu, Goodwin Hon; Liveris, Andrew N.; Llorens, Hugo; Lobo Sosa, Porfirio; Lobo, Richard M.; Locke, Gary F.; Lohier, Raymond J., Jr.; Lomellin, Carmen; Long, Bridget T.; Lopez, P. David; Lu, Christopher P.; Lugar, Richard G.; Lula da Silva, Luiz Inacio; Lundquist, Verne; Lurie, Nicole; Lute, Douglas E.; Lyden, Michael J.; Lynch, Loretta E.; Lynn, William J., III; Lyons, Peter B.; Mabus, Raymond E., Jr.; Magnus-Stinson, Jane E.; Main, Joseph A.; Maliki, Nuri al-; Manchin, Joseph, III; Mandela, Nelson R.; Mandell, Robert A.; Manilow, Lew; Marciel, Scot A.; Marcus, Felicia; Margolies, Marjorie; Mariani, Robert D.; Marmolejo, Marina Garcia; Marrett, Cora B.; Marsh, Pamela C.; Marshall, Capricia Penavic; Marshall, Michael; Marshall, S. Amanda; Martin, Jerry E.; Martinez, Kathleen; Martinez, Wilfredo; Martinez, William J.; Maryland : President's visits; Masingill, Christopher A.; Mason, Ronald, Jr.; Massanelli, Clifton; Matheson, Scott M., Jr.; Mauborgne, Renee; Mbeki, Thabo; McAlpine, Helen T.; McAnulty, James P.; McCabe, Matthew; McCarthy, Marina C.; McCaskill, Claire; McChrystal, Stanley A.; McClellan, Cornell; McConnell, Addison M. "Mitch"; McCord, Michael J.; McCracken, Samuel; McCulley, Terence P.; McDonald, Robert A.; McDonnell, Robert F.; McDonough, Denis R.; McDonough, Stephen L.; McGrath, Elizabeth; McGraw, Harold III; McHugh, John M.; McKeever, Candace Bond; McKinley, Peter M.; McLaughlin, Mark; McLeod, Margaret R. "Peggy"; McMullen, Christopher J.; McNally, Elizabeth Young; McNerney, W. James, Jr.; McNerney, W. James., Jr.; McPeak, Merrill A.; McPherson, Darryl K.; Medvedev, Dmitry A.; Medvedev, Dmitry A. ; Meek, Kendrick B.; Meltzer, Daniel; Memeger, Zane D.; Menendez, Robert; Merkel, Angela; Merten, Kenneth H.; Messina, Jim; Michael, Nelson; Mikulak, Robert P.; Miller, George; Miller, Maurice Lim; Miller, Neile L.; Miller, Paul S.; Mineta, David K.; Minow, Mary; Mitchell, George J.; Miyamoto, Gervin Kazumi; Moeller, Philip D.; Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Monks, Robert; Moon, Patrick S.; Moore, Joseph C.; Moreland, Jeffrey R.; Morella, Constance; Mosley, Valerie; Moure-Eraso, Rafael; Mubarak, Mohamed Hosni; Mujica, Jose; Mulally, Alan; Mullen, Michael G.; Mundaca, Michael F.; Munoz, Peter C.; Munter, Cameron; Murguia, Mary H.; Murkowski, Lisa; Murnane, Margaret; Murphy, Mary; Murphy, Philip D.; Murray, Cherry A.; Murray, Christopher W.; Museveni, Yoweri Kaguta; Mussomeli, Joseph A.; Myerscough, Sue E.; Nahale-a, Alapaki; Najera, Albert; Najib bin Abdul Razak, Mohamed; ; Smith, Peter J.; Napolitano, Giorgio; Napolitano, Janet A.; Nashef, Saed; Nathman, John B.; Nazarbayev, Nursultan; Nealer, Kevin G.; Neffenger, Peter V.; Nelson, David D.; Nelson, Susan R.; Nesbit, Kelly M.; Nesbitt, Wanda L.; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Neville, Dallas S.; Newell, Wayne; Nguyen, H.T.; Nicholas, John; Nicholas, Olivia; Nicholas, Trevor; Nickels, Gregory J.; Nides, Thomas R.; Niehaus, Patricia J.; Nixon, Jeremiah W. "Jay"; Norgrove, Linda; Nourse, Victoria F.; Nylander, Richard C.; Oatman-Wak Wak, Mary Jane; Obama, Malia; Obama, Michelle; Obama, Natasha "Sasha"; Oberly, Charles M., III; Ochoa, Eduardo M.; Odierno, Raymond T.; O'Donnell, Denise E.; Oglesby, Harold M.; O'Keefe, Donald M.; Olson, Theodore B.; Olson, Wendy J.; O'Malley, Martin J.; O'Neill, Robert E.; Ormsby, Michael C.; Orr, Robert M. "Skipp"; Ortner, Charles B.; Orton, Lance; O'Sullivan, Stephanie; Otero, Maria; Otunbaeva, Roza; Owen, Michael S.; Pahor, Borut; Palmer, Larry L.; Pang, Sheldon; Papandreou, Yeoryios; Papili, Joseph A.; Parker, Nick; Parker, Scott; Parr, Russ; Pascual, Carlos; Patil, Pratibha Devisingh; Patrick, Deval L.; Patricof, Alan J.; Patterson, Jerry; Paul, Chris; Payne, Charles; Pearce, Mark G.; Pearson, Willie, Jr.; Pedraza, Raul; Pelosi, Nancy; Perdue, Beverly Eaves; Perez, Thomas; Perkinson, Darryl; Perry, Alice T.; Perry, J. Richard; Perry, Lucy; Perry, Matt; Perry, Matthew; Perry, Michael; Perry, Stephanie; Pete, Mary Ciuniq; Petersen, Frank E.; Peterson, Woody N.; Petraeus, David H.; Phelps, Stacy; Pietrzyk, Joseph Pius; Pijeaux, Lawrence J., Jr.; Pinera Echenique, Sebastian; Pinera, Sebastian; Pistole, John S.; Podesta, John; Pollack, Lana; Poptodorova, Elena B.; Postel, Eric G.; Powell, Alma Johnson; Powell, Jo Ellen; Power, Samantha; Powers, Phyllis M.; Pratt, Tanya Walton; Preval, Rene Garcia; Price, Larry; Pride, Curtis; Pritzker, Penny; Punke, Michael; Purdon, Timothy Q.; Puri, Sunil; Quinn, Patrick J., III; Quiroz, Lisa; Rabiteau, Marsha J.; Raffinan, Maria E.; Rand, Addison B.; Rand, Ripley Eagles; Randlett, Wade; Rangel, Charles B.; Rapp, Stephen J.; Raskin, Sarah B.; Rasmussen, Anders Fogh; Ratner, Ronald A.; Ray, S. Alan; Reed-Rowe, Helen P.; Reeves, Carlton W.; Reid, Harry; Reinfeldt, Fredrick; Restrepo, Daniel A.; Reyna, Jimmie V.; Rhatigan, Wayne; Ricciardone, Francis J.; Ricciardone, Francis J., Jr.; Rice, Condoleezza; Rice, E. John, Jr.; Rice, Linda Johnson; Rice, Norman; Rice, Susan E.; Richmond, Kristin; Riemer, Emily; Riley, Robert R.; Riva, Wendy; Rivlin, Alice; Robichaux, David, Jr.; Robinson, Larry; Robinson, Marian; Roche, Robert W.; Rodin, Judith; Rodriguez, Arturo S.; Rogers, Chase T.; Rogers, John W.; Rogers, Thomasina; Romer, Christina D.; Romero, Ramona E.; Rooney, Daniel M.; Rooney, Jo Ann; Rosen, Amy; Rosenblum, Howard A.; Rosensaft, Menachem Z.; Rosenthal, Hannah; Ross, John A.; Rounds, M. Michael; Rousseff, Dilma; Rubel, Matthew; Rubin, Nancy H.; Rubinstein, Daniel; Rudd, Kevin; Rudd, Kevin ; Rudman, Mara; Rudy, Kirk A.; Runde, Kenneth J.; Rutte, Mark; Ryan, April; Saakashvili, Mikheil; Sacks, Cari; Sagan, Paul; Salas, Esther; Salazar, Kenneth L.; Saldana, Diana; Sale, Chris; Salih, Ali Abdallah; Sanchez, Francisco J.; Santos Calderon, Juan Manuel; Sargeant, Winslow; Sargsian, Serzh; Saris, Patti B.; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Savage, Melissa; Sawyer, Diane; Scheve, Timothy C.; Schiff, Charlene P.; Schimmel, Paul; Schloegel, George; Schmitz, Paul; Schrager, Adam; Schumann, Jill; Schumer, Charles E.; Schwab-Pomerantz, Carrie; Schwarzenegger, Arnold A.; Schwenke, Pamela C.; Seacrest, Ryan; Sebelius, Kathleen; Sebelius, Kathleen ; Sedgwick, Theodore; Segal, Phyllis N.; Segura, David H.; Seidenberg, Ivan; Sensenbrenner, Frank J., Jr.; Serino, Richard; Shadid, James E.; Shah, Rajiv; Shah, Rajiv J.; Shaheen, Jeanne; Shahzad, Faisal; Shannon, Thomas A.; Shapiro, Andrew J.; Sharp, Kevin H.; Sharpton, Al; Shaw, William J.; Shear, David; Sher, Susan S.; Sherburne, Jane C.; Sherrod, Shirley; Shields, Daniel L., III; Shinseki, Eric K.; Sibert, William C.; Siddiqui, Islam A.; Silten, Bobbi; Simon, Jacqueline; Simon, Michael H.; Simons, Paul E.; Simpson, Alan; Singer, David M.; Singh, Amardeep; Singh, Amy K.; Singh, Manmohan; Slaughter, Louise McIntosh; Sloane, Edwin D.; Smiley, Rickey; Smith, C. Kenneth; Smith, Daniel B.; Smith, Gary; Smith, Harry; Smith, Ian; Smith, Joseph A., Jr.; Smith, Judith A.; Smith, Maude; Smith, Michael S.; Smith, ShaLynde; Smoot, J. Patricia Wilson; Solis, Hilda L.; Solomon, Ken; Song, Unmi; Sorian, Richard; Sotelo, Eddie "Piolin"; Soto, Esteban, III; Sparrow, Malcolm K.; Specter, Arlen; Spotted Bear, Alyce; Srinivasan, Srinija; Stafford, Steven C.; Stafford, Willie R.; Stallman, Bob; Stanton, Edward L., III; Stark, Leonard P.; Steinberg, Donald K.; Stephanopoulos, George; Stephens, Kathleen; Stern, Andy; Stern, Warren M.; Sternberg-Powidzki, Edwarda; Stevens, Brad; Stevens, John B., Jr.; Stevens, John P.; Stevens, Tracie; Steward, Dave; Stewart, Donald M.; Stewart, Jon; Stewart, Karen B.; Stonesifer, Patty; Storella, Mark C.; Strickland, Bill; Strickland, Theodore; Stroum, Cynthia; Suber, Dianne Boardley; Sullivan, Kathryn D.; Sullivan, Maura C.; Sulmasy, Daniel; Summers, Lawrence H.; Suresh, Subra; Surma, John P.; Susman, Louis B.; Sutley, Nancy H.; Sutton, Myron M.; Svanberg, Carl-Henric; Swain, Loni; Swaraj, Sushma; Syed, Dilawar A.; Tabb, Winston; Takai, Teresa; Takvorian, Diane; Tatum, Beverly Daniel; Taylor, James L.; Tchen, Christina "Tina"; Tefft, John F.; Telles, Cynthia A.; Ternus, Marsha; Terry, Clyde E.; Thayer, Craig E.; Thephavong, Khampha; Thie, Bonnie; Thielen, Paul C.; Thomas, Harry K., Jr.; Thomas, Lorenzo "Ice Tea"; Thompson, James A.; Thompson, Jill Long; Thor, Doua; Thyer, Christopher R.; Tiao, Paul M.; Tillman, Michael F.; Tilton, Glenn; Todd, Chuck; Tolson, Kenneth; Toner, Dennis J.; Tong, Kurt W.; Torrey, James A.; Torsella, Joseph M.; Totenberg, Amy; Tradewell, Thomas J., Sr.; Traver, Andrew L.; Treadwell, Marc T.; Tucker, Josephine Staton; Tufte, Edward; Turley, James S.; Tusk, Donald; Ubinas, Luis A.; Ulmer, Frances; Underwood, Brian T.; Underwood, Robert A.; Urbanski, Michael F.; Valenzuela, Arturo; Valenzuela, Arturo A.; Van Rompuy, Herman; Vargas, Hector L., Jr.; Varmus, Harold; Vasquez, Juan F.; Vaudreuil, John W.; Velazquez, Nydia M.; Vera, Hernan D.; Verveer, Melanne; Vickers, Michael; Villarrea, Jose H.; Vilsack, Thomas J.; Voinovich, George V.; Volcker, Paul A.; Wade, Kenneth; Wakefield, Mary; Wald, Patricia McGowan; Walsh, Dennis P.; Walsh, John F.; Ward, Hines; Ward, Paul; Warren, Elizabeth; Warren, Michael J.; Waterhouse, Jonathan; Watts, Myles; Waxman, Henry A.; Wedgeworth, Robert; Weeks, Charles T., II; Weener, Earl F.; Weinberg, Martha W.; Weithman, Joe; Weithman, Josh; Weithman, Rachel; Weithman, Rhonda; White, Beth; White, Pamela A.; Whitefoot, Patricia; Whitehorn, Henry L., Sr.; Whitehouse, Sheldon; Wicker, Roger F.; Wieman, Carl; Wiesel, Elie; Wigginton, Stephen R.; Wilderotter, Maggie; Wilkins, Robert L.; Williams, Brian; Williams, Kathleen M.; Wilmerding, John; Wilson, David; Wineberg, Harvey S.; Woerth, Duane E.; Woertz, Patricia A.; Wohlers, Laurence D.; Wolff, Alejandro D.; Wolin, Neal; Woodson, Jonathan; Woteki, Catherine E.; Wright Allen, Arenda L.; Wuerl, Donald Archbishop; Wynn, Elaine; Yanukovych, Viktor; Yellen, Janet L.; Young-Holmes, Pamela; Yudhoyono, Susilo Bambang; Zak, Leocadia; Zapatero, Jose Luis Rodriguez; Zardari, Asif Ali; Zatlers, Valdis; Zavala Gomez del Campo, Margarita Esther. Subjects: "Russ Parr Morning Show, The"; "Tom Joyner Morning Show, The"; "Warren Ballentine Show, The"; ABC : "The View" program; ABC News; ABC News, "World News with Diane Sawyer"; ABC, "Good Morning America"; Administrative Conference of the U.S., Council of the; Afghanistan : International diplomatic efforts; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force, commander; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force, acting commander; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : President Obama's visit; Afghanistan : Terrorism; Afghanistan : U.S. Ambassador; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Afghanistan : U.S. policy review; Africa : African Growth and Opportunity Act Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum; African American journalists and bloggers, meeting with President; Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, Federal; Agriculture, Department of : Former Georgia State Director for Rural Development; Agriculture, Department of : General Counsel; Agriculture, Department of : Secretary; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Food Safety; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics; Air Force, Department of the : Air Force Academy, U.S.; Alabama : Disaster assistance; Alabama : Governor; Alabama : President's visit; Alabama : Tacky Jacks Tavern & Grill in Orange Beach; Albania : U.S. Ambassador; American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development, Institute of; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Tribal leaders, meeting with President; Amtrak; Angola : U.S. Ambassador; Appeals, Special Panel on; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (U.S. Access Board); Arctic Research Commission, U.S.; Argentina : President; Arizona : Disaster assistance; Arizona : Governor; Arizona : Wildfires, containment efforts; Arkansas : Flash flooding, damage and recovery efforts; Arkansas : Governor; Arkansas : Storms, tornadoes, and floods, damage and recovery efforts; Armed Forces, U.S. : "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, repeal; Armed Forces, U.S. : Gold Star families, meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Operation Kid Comfort; Armed Forces, U.S. : Reserve Officers' Training Corps; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers, meetings with President; Armed Services YMCA; Armenia : President; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Global Nuclear Security Summit; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) with Russia, proposed expansion; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) with Russia, expansion; Army, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Installations and Environment; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Army, Department of the : Walter Reed Army Medical Center; Arts : "Nuclear Tipping Point," White House screening; Arts : "The Pacific," White House screening; Arts : "Waiting for Superman," meeting with students profiled; Arts and the Humanities, National Foundation on the; Arts and the Humanities, President's Committee on the; Arts, National Council on the; Asia : President Obama's visit; Asia : Trade with U.S.; Asia : Trans-Pacific Partnership; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, President's Advisory Commission on; Asian Nations, Association of Southeast (ASEAN); Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC); Australia : Afghanistan, role in; Australia : President Obama's visit; Australia : Prime Minister; Australia : Relations with U.S.; Aviation : Airport security detection capabilities, review; Azerbaijan : President; Azerbaijan : U.S. Ambassador; Barbados : Prime Minister; Battle Monuments Commission, American; Bioethical Issues, Presidential Commission for the Study of; Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase From People Who Are; Bosnia and Herzegovina : Srebrencia genocide, 15th anniversary; Bosnia and Herzegovina : U.S. Ambassador; Boundary and Water Commission (United States and Mexico), International; Boy Scouts of America; BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling, National Commission on the; Brazil : Nuclear energy, proposed cooperation with Iran; Brazil : President; Brazil : President-elect; Brazil : Relations with U.S.; Brazil : United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, Brazilian personnel, casualties; Broadcasting Bureau, International; Brunei : U.S. Ambassador; Budget, Federal : Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, National Commission on; Budget, Federal : Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009; Bulgaria : Ambassador to U.S.; Bulgaria : Prime Minister; Burkina Faso : U.S. Ambassador; Business and industry : Business Council, The; Business and industry : Business leaders, meetings with President; Business and industry : Labor issues :: Leaders, meeting with President; Business and industry : Labor leaders, meeting with President; Business and industry : Leaders, meeting with President; Business and industry : Small-business hiring incentives, proposed; Business and industry : Small-business lending fund, proposed; Business and industry : Small-business owners, meeting with President; Cabinet : Members, meetings with President; Cable News Network, "Larry King Live"; California : Democratic Party events; California : Disaster assistance; California : Governor; California : KPWR in Los Angeles; California : La Opinion newspaper; California : President's visits; California : San Bruno gas line explosion; California : Solyndra, Inc., in Fremont; Cameron, David; Cameroon : U.S. Ambassador; Canada : 2010 Olympic Games in Vancouver; Canada : Group of Eight (G–8) summit in Muskoka; Canada : Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Toronto; Canada : President Obama's visit; Canada : Prime Minister; Capitol, U.S., Architect of the; CBS : "CBS Evening News with Katie Couric"; CBS News; Central African Republic : U.S. Ambassador; Central Intelligence Agency; Cesar Chavez Day; Chad : U.S. Ambassador; Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, U.S.; Chemical Weapons, Organisation for the Prohibition of; Children and youth : Childhood obesity, prevention efforts; Children and youth : My Summit 2010 in Muskoka, Canada; Children and youth : My Summit 2010 in Toronto, Canada; Chile : 200th anniversary of establishment; Chile : Earthquake, damage and recovery efforts; Chile : President; Chile : President-elect; Chile : Relations with U.S.; Chile : San Jose mine rescue efforts; Chile : U.S. Ambassador; China : Expo 2010 Shanghai; China : President; China : Relations with U.S.; Civil Aviation Organization, International; Civil rights : African American leaders, meeting with President; Civil rights : Wage equality; Civil rights : Women's rights and gender equality; Colombia : President; Colombia : President-elect; Colombia : U.S. Ambassador; Colorado : Air Force Academy, U.S., in Colorado Springs; Colorado : President's visit; Colorado : Primary elections; Comedy Central : "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart"; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Market Access and Compliance; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Observation and Prediction; Commerce, Department of : Industry and Security, Bureau of; Commerce, Department of : Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National; Commerce, Department of : Secretary; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for Export Administration; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for International Trade; Commerce, international : Financial regulations, modernization efforts; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Unrest; Commerce, international : Group of Eight (G–8) nations; Commerce, international : Group of Twenty (G–20) nations; Commerce, international : U.S. National Export Initiative; Communications : News media :: Presidential interviews; Community Service, Corporation for National and; Community Solutions, White House Council; Congo, Democratic Republic of the : U.S. Ambassador; Congo, Republic of the : U.S. Ambassador; Congress : Bipartisanship; Congress : Congressional Black Caucus; Congress : Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: Democratic caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: Education and Labor Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: Energy and Commerce Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: Rules Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Congress : House of Representatives :: Ways and Means Committee; Congress : Legislative agenda; Congress : Members, meetings with President; Congress : New Democrat Coalition; Congress : Senate :: Democratic caucus; Congress : Senate :: Majority leader; Congress : Senate :: Minority leader; Congress : Senate :: Republican caucus; Connecticut : Democratic Party events; Connecticut : Disaster assistance; Connecticut : President's visit; Connecticut : U.S. Senator, retirement; Costa Rica : President; Costa Rica : President-elect; Costa Rica : Relations with U.S.; Cote d'Ivoire : Presidential elections; Cote d'Ivoire : U.S. Ambassador; Croatia : President-elect; Croatia : Prime Minister; Czech Republic : President; Czech Republic : President Obama's visit; Czech Republic : Prime Minister; Czech Republic : U.S. Ambassador; Deaths : Biden, Catherine E. "Jean" Finnegan; Deaths : Height, Dorothy I.; Deaths : Kaczynska, Maria; Deaths : Kaczynska, Maria, First Lady of Poland; Deaths : Kaczynski, Lech, President of Poland; Deaths : Kirchner, Nestor C., former President of Argentina; Deaths : Thompson, David, Prime Minister of Barbados; Decorations, medals, and awards : Congressional Medal of Honor; Decorations, medals, and awards : Grammy on the Hill Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : Purple Heart; Decorations, medals, and awards : Purple Heart medal; Defense and national security : Cybersecurity, strengthening efforts; Defense and national security : Intelligence; Defense and national security : National security officials and advisers, meeting with President; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Networks and Information Integration; Defense, Department of : Central Command, U.S.; Defense, Department of : Central Command, U.S., commander; Defense, Department of : Deputy Chief Management Officer; Defense, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff and combatant commanders, meeting with President; Defense, Department of : Joint Forces Command, U.S.; Defense, Department of : Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller); Defense, Department of : Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Defense, Department of : Under Secretary for Intelligence; Delaware : Disaster assistance; Delaware : President's visit; Delta Regional Authority; Democratic Party : Democratic National Committee; Democratic Party : Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee; Development banks and funds : African Development Fund; Development banks and funds : Asian Development Bank; Development, U.S. Agency for International; Disability, National Council on; Disabled American Veterans ; Disaster assistance : Alabama; Disaster assistance : Arizona; Disaster assistance : California; Disaster assistance : Connecticut; Disaster assistance : Delaware; Disaster assistance : District of Columbia; Disaster assistance : Haiti, private sector aid; Disaster assistance : Idaho; Disaster assistance : Illinois; Disaster assistance : Iowa; Disaster assistance : Israel, wildfires, U.S. assistance; Disaster assistance : Kansas; Disaster assistance : Kentucky; Disaster assistance : Maine; Disaster assistance : Maryland; Disaster assistance : Massachusetts; Disaster assistance : Minnesota; Disaster assistance : Mississippi; Disaster assistance : Missouri; Disaster assistance : Montana; Disaster assistance : Nebraska; Disaster assistance : New Hampshire; Disaster assistance : New Jersey; Disaster assistance : New Mexico; Disaster assistance : New York; Disaster assistance : North Carolina; Disaster assistance : North Dakota; Disaster assistance : Oklahoma; Disaster assistance : Pennsylvania; Disaster assistance : Puerto Rico; Disaster assistance : Rhode Island; Disaster assistance : South Dakota; Disaster assistance : Tennessee; Disaster assistance : Texas; Disaster assistance : U.S. Virgin Islands; Disaster assistance : Vermont; Disaster assistance : Virgin Islands, U.S.; Disaster assistance : Virginia; Disaster assistance : West Virginia; Disaster assistance : Wisconsin; Disaster assistance : Wyoming; District of Columbia : Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington; District of Columbia : Democratic Party event; District of Columbia : Democratic Party events; District of Columbia : Disaster assistance; District of Columbia : Gelberg Signs; District of Columbia : Judicial Nomination Commission; District of Columbia : Martha's Table, Inc.; District of Columbia : Mayor-elect; District of Columbia : Ronald H. Brown Middle School of Technology; District of Columbia : So Others Might Eat (SOME) organization; District of Columbia : Town Hall Education Arts Recreation Campus (THEARC); District of Columbia : Walter Reed Army Medical Center; Diwali; Dominican Republic : Haitian relief and recovery efforts, role in; Dominican Republic : President; Easter; Economic Advisers, Council of; Economic Council, National; Economic Recovery Advisory Board, President's; Economic Report of the President, 2010; Economy, national : American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009; Economy, national : Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Economy, national : Economic concerns; Economy, national : Financial regulations, modernization efforts; Economy, national : Recession, effects; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Ecuador : President; Education, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education; Education, Department of : Education Sciences, National Board for; Education, Department of : Education Statistics, National Center for; Education, Department of : Historcially Black Colleges and Universities, President's Board of Advisers on; Education, Department of : Historically Black Colleges and Universities, President's Board of Advisers on; Education, Department of : Indian Education, National Advisory Council on; Education, Department of : Secretary; Egpyt : Traffic accident in Aswan, American deaths; Egypt : Civil and human rights, improvement efforts; Egypt : Democracy efforts; Egypt : President; Egypt : Relations with U.S.; El Salvador : U.S. Ambassador; Election Assistance Commission, U.S.; Elections : 2010 congressional elections; Employment and unemployment : Unemployment rate; Energy : Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs; Energy : BP p.l.c.; Energy : Energy experts, meeting with President; Energy : Energy legislation, proposed; Energy : National energy policy; Energy : Oil and gas industry, Federal regulations and oversight; Energy : Solar and wind energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Nuclear Energy; Energy, Department of : Energy Regulatory Commission, Federal; Energy, Department of : Nuclear Security Administration, National; Energy, Department of : Sandia National Laboratories; Energy, Department of : Secretary; Environment : United Nations Climate Change Conference; Environmental Cooperation, Commission for : Joint Public Advisory Committee; Environmental Protection Agency : Administrator; Environmental Protection Agency : Assistant Administrator for Environmental Information; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, U.S.; Estonia : President; Europe : Euro area; Europe : European airspace, closure due to volcanic ash cloud; Europe : European Union :: Commission President; Europe : European Union :: Council President; Europe : European Union :: European Council; Europe : European Union :: Leaders, meeting with President Obama; Europe : European Union :: Summit with U.S. in Lisbon, Portugal; Europe : Financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Europe : Financial markets :: Unrest; Europe : Financial markets, stabilization efforts; Europe : Greece, economic assistance for; Europe : World War II, 65th anniversary of conclusion; Export Council, President's; Export-Import Bank of the U.S.; Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, President's Advisory Council on; Farm Credit Administration; Father's Day; Financial Capability, President's Advisory Council on; Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, National Commission on; Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition, President's Council on; Florida : Cape Canaveral Air Station; Florida : Democratic Party events; Florida : El Mago De Las Fritas restaurant in Miami; Florida : Governor; Florida : Pensacola Beach; Florida : President's visits; Florida : Tampa :: MacDill Air Force Base; Florida : Tampa :: University of Tampa; Florida : WEDR in Miami; Florida : WSOL in Jacksonville; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors, credentialing ceremony; Foreign, policy, U.S. : International human rights activists, meeting with President; Fowler, James T.; FOX News; France : President; Gabon : U.S. Ambassador; Gambia, The : U.S. Ambassador; Georgia : President; Georgia : President's visit; Georgia : Savannah : Meddin Studios; Georgia : Savannah : Mrs. Wilkes' Dining Room; Georgia : Savannah :: Chatham Steel Corporation; Georgia : Savannah :: Savannah Technical College; Georgia, Republic of : President; Germany : Chancellor; Germany : Relations with U.S.; Germany : Unification, 20th anniversary of; Government Accountability Office, U.S. : Comptroller General of the U.S.; Government Printing Office : Public Printer of the U.S.; Governors, Council of; Greece : European economic assistance; Greece : Financial system, reforms; Greece : Prime Minister; Greece : U.S. Ambassador; Greek Independence Day; Guatemala : President; Guatemala : U.S. Public Health sexually transmitted disease study, 1946-1948; Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil rig :: Environmental effects and cleanup efforts; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Economic effects and recovery efforts; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Environmental effects and cleanup efforts; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizon oil spill :: Explosion and rescue efforts; Gulf of Mexico : Deepwater Horizons oil rig explosion; Gulf of Mexico : Vermilion 380 platform fire; Haiti : American civilians affected by the earthquake, efforts to locate and rescue; Haiti : Earthquake, damage and recovery efforts; Haiti : International assistance; Haiti : President; Haiti : U.S. Ambassador; Haiti : U.S. assistance; Haiti : United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti; Halloween; Hawaii : KSSK in Honolulu; Hawaii : President's visit; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs; Health and Human Services, Department of : Bioethical Issues, Presidential Commission for the Study of; Health and Human Services, Department of : Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; Health and Human Services, Department of : Medicare and Medicaid Services, Centers for; Health and Human Services, Department of : National Institutes of Health :: National Cancer Institute; Health and Human Services, Department of : Secretary; Health and Human Services, Department of : Secretary ; Health and medical care : Cost control reforms; Health and medical care : Health insurance company representatives, meeting with President; Health and medical care : Human experimentation and medical ethics; Health and medical care : Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Health and medical care : State insurance commissioners, meeting with President; Historic Preservation, Advisory Council on; Holocaust Memorial Council, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Coast Guard, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Customs and Border Protection, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Domestic Nuclear Detection Office; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal ; Homeland Security, Department of : Operations Center, National; Homeland Security, Department of : Secret Service, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Secretary; Homeland Security, Department of : Transportation Security Administration; Homeland Security, Department of : Under Secretary for Management; Honduras : President; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Secretary; Housing Finance Agency, Federal; Humanities, National Council on the; Hungary : Prime Minister; Iceland : Eyjafjallajokull volcano, eruption; Iceland : U.S. Ambassador; Idaho : Disaster assistance; Illinois : Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery in Elwood; Illinois : Democratic Party events; Illinois : Disaster assistance; Illinois : Ford assembly plant in Chicago; Illinois : Governor; Illinois : Hines VA Hospital in Chicago; Illinois : President's visit; Illinois : President's visits; Illinois : Primary elections; Illinois : U.S. senatorial candidate; Illinois : Valois restaurant in Chicago, IL; Illinois : WGCI in Chicago; Illinois : WVON in Chicago; Immigration and naturalization : Reform; Independence Day; India : Business leaders, meeting with President Obama; India : Emperor Humayun's tomb in New Delhi; India : Holy Name High School in Mumbai; India : Indian National Congress Party president; India : Leader of the Opposition (Lower House); India : Mani Bhavan Gandhi Sangrahalaya in Mumbai; India : May 22 plane crash in Mangalore; India : May 28 train attack; India : November 26, 2008, terrorist attacks in Mumbai; India : President; India : President Obama's visit; India : President's visit; India : Prime Minister; India : Rajghat in Mumbai, wreath-laying ceremony; India : Strategic Dialogue, U.S.-India; India : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; India : Vice President; Indian Education, National Advisory Council on; Indian Gaming Commission, National; Indiana : Kokomo :: Chrysler Indiana Transmission Plant II; Indiana : Kokomo :: Gingerbread House Bakery; Indiana : Kokomo :: Sycamore Elementary School; Indiana : President's visit; Indonesia : Istiqlal Mosque in Jakarta; Indonesia : President; Indonesia : President Obama's visit; Indonesia : Relations with U.S.; Indonesia : U.S. Ambassador; Indonesia : U.S. Embassy staff in Jakarta, meeting with President Obama; Intelligence Advisory Board, President's; Intelligence, Office of the Director of National : Principal Deputy National Intelligence Director; Interior, Department of : Secretary; Interior, Department of the : Fish and Wildlife Service; Interior, Department of the : Minerals Management Service; Interior, Department of the : Secretary; International Development, U.S. Agency for; Iowa : Baby Boomer's Cafe in Des Moines; Iowa : Disaster assistance; Iowa : Jerry's Family Restaurant in Mount Pleasant; Iowa : MogoOrganic farm in Mount Pleasant; Iowa : Prairie Lights Books in Iowa City; Iowa : President's visits; Iowa : Siemens wind turbine blade manufacturing plant in Fort Madison; Iran : Nuclear energy, proposed cooperation with Brazil and Turkey; Iran : Nuclear weapons development; Iran : U.N. Security Council sanctions; Iraq : Democracy efforts; Iraq : Former Prime Minister; Iraq : Insurgency and terrorist attacks; Iraq : Kurdistan Regional Government President; Iraq : Kurdistan Regional Government, President; Iraq : Parliamentary elections; Iraq : Prime Minister; Iraq : Relations with U.S.; Iraq : Terrorist attack in Baghdad; Iraq : U.S. Ambassador; Iraq : U.S. Ambassador ; Iraq : U.S. Forces—Iraq, commanding general; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Iraq : Vice President; Ireland : Prime Minister; Islamic Conference, Organisation of the; Israel : Gaza Freedom Flotilla incident; Israel : Gaza, economic and military blockade; Israel : Minister of Defense; Israel : Prime Minister; Israel : West Bank settlements; Israel : West Bank, checkpoints, reduction of; Israel : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; It Gets Better Project; Italy : President; Jamaica : U.S. Ambassador; James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation; Japan : Kotoku-in temple in Kamakura; Japan : President Obama's visit; Japan : Prime Minister; Japan : Prime Minister-designate; Japan : Relations with U.S.; Jordan : King; Jordan : Relations with U.S.; Judges Association, Federal; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and confirmations; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice, retirement; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice-designate; Justice, Department of : Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives :: Director; Justice, Department of : Deputy Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Drug Enforcement Administration; Justice, Department of : Justice Assistance Director; Justice, Department of : Parole Commission, U.S.; Justice, Department of : U.S. attorneys; Justice, Department of : U.S. attorneys ; Kansas : Disaster assistance; Kazakhstan : President; Kentucky : Disaster assistance; Kentucky : Floods, damage and recovery efforts; Kentucky : Governor; Krygyzstan : President and Prime Minister; Labor Relations Board, National; Labor, Department of  : Secretary; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health; Labor, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Labor, Department of : Inspector General; Labor, Department of : Secretary; Labor, Department of : Wage and Hour Division; Labor-Management Relations, National Council on Federal; Laos : U.S. Ambassador; Latvia : President; Latvia : Prime Minister; Lebanon : Prime Minister; Lebanon : U.S. Ambassador; Legal Services Corporation; Legion, American; Legislation, enacted : Bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the Army's 100th Infantry Battalion and the 42d Regimental Combat Team; Legislation, enacted : CAPTA Reauthorization Act of 2010; Legislation, enacted : Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010; Legislation, enacted : Reducing Over-Classification Act; Legislation, enacted : Travel Promotion Act of 2009; Legislation, proposed : "American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009"; Legislation, proposed : "Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010"; Legislation, proposed : "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act"; Lesotho : U.S. Ambassador; Liberia : President; Lithuania : Prime Minister; Louisiana : Coast Guard Station Venice; Louisiana : Governor; Louisiana : New Orleans :: Columbia Parc at the Bayou District housing development; Louisiana : New Orleans :: Community leaders, meeting with President; Louisiana : New Orleans :: Mayor; Louisiana : New Orleans :: Parkway Bakery & Tavern; Louisiana : Plaquemines Parish fishermen, meeting with President; Louisiana : President's visits; Louisiana : State and local officials, meeting with President; Lunar New Year; Maine : Acadia National Park; Maine : Disaster assistance; Maine : President's visit; Malaysia : Prime Minister; Malaysia : U.S. Ambassador; Management and Budget, Office of : Director; March of Dimes; Marine Mammal Commission; Maritime Commission, Federal; Marshals Service, U.S.; Maryland : Chesapeake Machine Company in Baltimore; Maryland : Disaster assistance; Maryland : Ernest Maier, Inc., in Bladensburg; Maryland : IBEW Local 26 headquarters job training center in Lanham; Maryland : James J. Rowley Training Center in Beltsville; Maryland : K. Neal International Trucks, Inc., in Hyattsville; Maryland : National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda; Maryland : Naval Academy, U.S., in Annapolis; Maryland : President's visits; Massachusetts : Attorney general; Massachusetts : Disaster assistance; Massachusetts : Floods, damage and recovery efforts; Massachusetts : Governor; Massachusetts : President's visits; Massachusetts : U.S. Senator-elect; Mauritania : U.S. Ambassador; Medal of Science, President's Committee on the National; Mediation Board, National; Memorial Day; Mexico : 200th anniversary of independence; Mexico : Counternarcotics efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Mexico : President; Mexico : Relations with U.S.; Mexico : Teenager, shooting death along U.S.-Mexican border; Michigan : Chrysler Jefferson North Assembly Plant in Detroit; Michigan : Democratic Party events; Michigan : General Motors Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly Center; Michigan : Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo; Michigan : President's visits; Michigan : University of Michigan in Ann Arbor; Middle East : Peace and democracy efforts; Middle East : U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace; Millennium Challenge Corporation : Board of Directors; Minnesota : Democratic Party events; Minnesota : Disaster assistance; Minnesota : President's visits; Mississippi : Chimneys Restaurant, The, in Gulfport; Mississippi : Disaster assistance; Mississippi : Governor; Mississippi : Gulfport community leaders, meeting with President; Mississippi : President's visit; Mississippi : Storms, tornadoes, and floods, damage and recovery efforts; Mississippi : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Mississippi River Commission; Missouri : Disaster assistance; Missouri : LaRue Insurance Agency, Inc., in Monroe City; Missouri : Peggy Sue's Cafe in Monroe City; Missouri : POET Biorefining in Macon; Missouri : President's visit; Missouri : President's visits; Missouri : Schachtsiek family farm in Palmyra, tour; Missouri : Smith Electric Vehicles in Kansas City; Monetary Fund, International; Montana : Disaster assistance; Montenegro : U.S. Ambassador; Museum and Library Sciences Board, National; Museum and Library Services Board, National; Museum and Library Services, Institute of; Namibia : U.S. Ambassador; National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's; Natural disasters : Arizona, wildfires; Natural disasters : Arkansas, flash flooding; Natural disasters : Chile, earthquake; Natural disasters : Chile, earthquake-related tsunami warnings :: Hawaii; Natural disasters : Chile, earthquake-related tsunami warnings :: Guam; Natural disasters : Chile, earthquake-related tsunami warnings :: American Samoa; Natural disasters : Haiti, earthquake; Natural disasters : Hurricane Earl; Natural disasters : Israel, wildfires; Natural disasters : Kentucky and Tennessee, floods; Natural disasters : Mississippi, tornadoes; Natural disasters : Northeastern States, floods; Natural disasters : Ohio, storms and tornadoes; Natural disasters : Oklahoma, storms and tornadoes; Natural disasters : Pakistan, floods; Natural disasters : Potential natural disasters, preparedness efforts; Natural disasters : Russia, wildfires; Natural disasters : Southeastern States, storms, tornadoes, and floods; Natural disasters : Tropical Storm Bonnie; Navy, Department of the : Marine Corps, U.S.; Navy, Department of the : National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD; Navy, Department of the : Naval Academy, U.S., in Annapolis, MD; Navy, Department of the : Secretary; NBC News; NBC Nightly News; NBC, "Today" show; Nebraska : Disaster assistance; Netherlands : Prime Minister; Netherlands : U.S. residents, arrest; Netherlands, The : Prime Minister; Netherlands, The : Relations with U.S.; Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship; Nevada : Democratic Party event; Nevada : Democratic Party events; Nevada : KVEG in Las Vegas; Nevada : President's visit; New Hampshire : Arc Energy LLC in Nashua; New Hampshire : Disaster assistance; New Hampshire : President's visit; New Jersey : Disaster assistance; New Jersey : Edison small-business owners, meeting with President; New Jersey : President's visits; New Mexico : Barelas Coffee House in Albuquerque; New Mexico : Disaster assistance; New Mexico : President's visits; New York : Continental Connection Flight 3407, crash in Clarence on February 12, 2009; New York : Democratic Party events; New York : Disaster assistance; New York : Duff's Famous Wings in Cheektowaga; New York : Industrial Support Inc., in Buffalo; New York : New York City :: Attempted terrorist attack in Times Square; New York : New York City :: Attempted terrorist attack in Times Square ; New York : New York City :: Mayor; New York : New York City :: Real Time Crime Center; New York : President's visit; New York : President's visits; New York : U.S. Military Academy at West Point; Nigeria : Acting President; Nigeria : Independence, 50th anniversary of; Nigeria : President; Nigeria : U.S. Ambassador; North Atlantic Council; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; North Carolina : Celgard, LLC in Charlotte; North Carolina : Disaster assistance; North Carolina : Forsyth Technical Community College in Winston-Salem; North Carolina : President's visits; North Dakota : Disaster assistance; North Dakota : U.S. Senator, retirement; North Korea : Nuclear weapons development; North Korea : Relations with South Korea; North Korea : U.N. Security Council sanctions; North Korea : Yeonpyeong Island artillery engagement with South Korea and response; Ohio : Cuyahoga Community College Western Campus in Parma; Ohio : Democratic Party events; Ohio : Elyria :: EMC Precision Machining; Ohio : Elyria :: Lorain County Community College; Ohio : Elyria :: Riddell sport goods main office and factory; Ohio : Elyria :: Smitty's Place bar and restaurant; Ohio : Governor; Ohio : President's visit; Ohio : President's visits; Ohio : Storms and tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Ohio : V&M Star Ohio in Youngstown; Ohio : WMOJ in Cincinnati; Oklahoma : Disaster assistance; Oklahoma : Governor; Oklahoma : Storms and tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Oregon : President's visit; Overseas Private Investment Corporation; Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC); Pakistan : Floods, damage and recovery efforts; Pakistan : President; Pakistan : Prime Minister; Pakistan : Relations with U.S.; Pakistan : Strategic Dialogue, U.S.-Pakistan; Pakistan : Taliban movement; Pakistan : Terrorism; Pakistan : U.S. Ambassador; Palau : U.S. Ambassador; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : Gaza, conflict and humanitarian crisis; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : Gaza, reconstruction efforts; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : International humanitarian assistance; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : Palestine Investment Conference; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : President; Panama : U.S. Ambassador; Passover; Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance; Peace, U.S. Institute of; Pennsylvania : Disaster assistance ; Pennsylvania : Famous 4th Street Delicatessen in Philadelphia; Pennsylvania : President's visit; Pennsylvania : President's visits; Pennsylvania : Reading Terminal Market in Philadelphia; Pennsylvania : WDAS in Philadelphia; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; Peru : President; Peru : U.S. Ambassador; Philippines : President; Philippines : Relations with U.S.; Poland : Acting President; Poland : Acting President and President-elect; Poland : Afghanistan :: Polish military forces, casualties; Poland : Afghanistan :: Polish military forces, deployment; Poland : Auschwitz concentration camp, 65th anniversary of liberation; Poland : First Lady; Poland : NATO, role; Poland : President; Poland : President Obama's visit; Poland : Prime Minister; Poland : Relations with U.S.; Portugal : European Union summit in Lisbon; Portugal : President; Portugal : President Obama's visit; Portugal : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Postal Service, U.S.; Presidency, U.S. : Former President George H.W. Bush, meeting with President Obama; Presidency, U.S. : Former President Jimmy Carter; Presidency, U.S. : Former President William J. Clinton, meetings with President Obama; Presidency, U.S. : Former President William J. Clinton, meetings with President; Presidency, U.S. : Former Presidents George W. Bush and William J. Clinton, Haitian relief efforts and fundraising campaign; Presidency, U.S. : Former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, Haitian relief efforts and fundraising campaign; Presidential Scholars, Commission on; Presidio Trust; Printing Office, U.S. Government : Public Printer of the U.S.; Privacy and Civil Rights Oversight Board; Public Diplomacy, U.S. Advisory Commission on; Puerto Rico : Disaster assistance; Puerto Rico : Hurricane Earl, damage and recovery efforts; Recovery Independent Advisory Panel; Red Cross, American; Religious Freedom, U.S. Commission on International; Religious leaders : African American religious leaders, meeting with President; Reserve System, Federal; Retirement Thrift Investment Board, Federal; Rhode Island : American Cord & Webbing Co., Inc., in Woonsocket; Rhode Island : Disaster assistance; Rhode Island : President's visits; Rodriguez, Leon; Romania : President; Roosevelt Campobello International Park Commission; Russia : NATO-Russia Council; Russia : President; Russia : Relations with U.S.; Russia : Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) with U.S., proposed expansion; Russia : Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) with U.S., expansion; Russia : Terrorist attacks in Moscow; Russia : Wildfires, effects and efforts to combat; Russia : World Trade Organization, membership bid; Salary Council, Federal; Saudi Arabia : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Saudi Arabia : King; Saudi Arabia : Relations with U.S.; Science and Technology, President's Council of Advisers on; Science Board, National; Science Foundation, National; Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's National; Sentencing Commission, U.S.; Sierra Leone : U.S. Ambassador; Slovakia : Prime Minister; Slovakia : U.S. Ambassador; Slovenia : Prime Minister; Slovenia : U.S. Ambassador; Small Business Administration : Chief Counsel for Advocacy; Smithsonian Institution : John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; South Africa : 2010 World Cup; South Africa : Former President; South Dakota : Disaster assistance; South Korea : Free trade agreement with U.S.; South Korea : Navy patrol ship Cheonan, sinking; South Korea : President; South Korea : President Obama's visit; South Korea : Relations with North Korea; South Korea : Relations with U.S.; South Korea : Seoul, 60th anniversary of liberation; Space program : Shuttle; Space program : Space exploration; Space Station, International; Spain : King; Spain : President; Spain : Prime Minister; Special Counsel, Office of; Sports : 2010 Olympic Games; Sports : Baseball; Sports : Basketball; Sports : Football; Sports : Golf; Sports : Little League; Sports : Olympic Games; Sports : Paralympic Games; Sports : Soccer; Sports : Softball; Sports : Tennis; State Justice Institute; State, Department of : Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs; State, Department of : Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources; State, Department of : International Joint Commission; State, Department of : Secretary; ; Indiana : Kokomo :: Kokomo Fire Department station; Sudan : Darfur, conflict and human rights crisis; Sudan : First Vice President; Sudan : Southern Sudan, independence referenda; Sudan : Sudan : Southern Sudan, independence referenda; Sudan : U.S. Special Envoy; Surface Transportation Board; Sweden : Prime Minister; Syria : U.S. Ambassador; Tax Court, U.S.; Taxation : Tax relief; Telemundo : "Enfoque" program; Tennessee : Disaster assistance; Tennessee : Floods, damage and recovery efforts; Tennessee : Governor; Terrorism : Counterterrorism efforts; Terrorism : Explosive devices on U.S.-bound flights; Terrorism : September 11, 2001, attacks; Terrorism : Terrorist watch lists, procedural review; Texas : Disaster assistance; Texas : Fort Bliss; Texas : Governor; Texas : IRS building in Austin, plane crash incident; Texas : President's visits; Thailand : U.S. Ambassador; Tibet, Dalai Lama; Timor-Leste : U.S. Ambassador; Trade Policy and Negotiations, Advisory Committee for; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : Chief Agricultural Negotiator; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : Deputy U.S. Trade Representative—Geneva Office; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : U.S. Trade Representative; Transportation Safety Board, National; Transportation, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy; Treasury, Department of the : Fiscal Capability, President's Advisory Council on; Treasury, Department of the : Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary ; Treasury, Department of the : Under Secretary for Domestic Finance; Turkey : Constitutional referendum; Turkey : Democracy efforts; Turkey : Nuclear energy, proposed cooperation with Iran; Turkey : President; Turkey : Prime Minister; Turkey : Relations with U.S.; Turkey : U.S. Ambassador; Turner Network Television (TNT); Uganda : President; Uganda : Terrorist attacks in Kampala; Ukraine : President; Ukraine : President-elect; Ukraine : Relations with U.S.; United Arab Emirates : Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi; United Farm Workers of America; United Kingdom : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; United Kingdom : Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty, U.S.-U.K.; United Kingdom : Prime Minister; United Kingdom : Relations with U.S.; United Kingdom : U.S. Ambassador; United Nations : General Assembly; United Nations : Haiti, United Nations Stabilization Mission in; United Nations : Secretary-General; United Nations : Security Council; United Nations : U.S. Representative for U.N. Management and Reform; United Nations : U.S. Representatives; United Nations : World Health Organization; Univision : "Piolin por la Manana" program; Univision : "Sabado Gigante" program; Uruguay : President-elect; Uzbekistan : U.S. Ambassador; Valles Caldera Trust; Venezuela : U.S. Ambassador; Vermont : Disaster assistance; Veterans : Veterans service organizations; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Secretary; Veterans Day; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Vietnam : U.S. Ambassador; Vietnam Education Foundation; Virgin Islands, U.S. : Disaster assistance; Virgin Islands, U.S. : Hurricane Earl, damage and recovery efforts; Virginia : Disaster assistance; Virginia : Graham Road Elementary School in Falls Church; Virginia : Hampton University; Virginia : OPOWER in Arlington; Virginia : President's visits; Voluntarism; Washington : President's visit; West Virginia : Disaster assistance; West Virginia : Governor; West Virginia : President's visit; West Virginia : President's visits; West Virginia : Upper Big Branch mine, accident; West Virginia : Upper Big Branch Mine, explosion; White House Fellowships, President's Commission on; White House Mentorship Program; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Energy and Climate Change; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism ; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Special Projects; White House Office : Interns; White House Office : Middle Class Task Force; White House Office : National Drug Control Policy, Office of; White House Office : Science and Technology Policy, Office of; White House Office : Vice President; White House Office : White House staff members, meeting with the President; White House science fair; White House, Committee for the Preservation of the; Wisconsin : Democratic Party events; Wisconsin : Disaster assistance; Wisconsin : President's visit; Wisconsin : President's visits; Wisconsin : Racine :: Mayor; Wisconsin : Racine :: O&H Danish Bakery; Wisconsin : Robert M. La Follette High School in Madison; Wisconsin : WKKV in Milwaukee; Wisconsin : ZBB Energy Corporation manufacturing facility in Menomonee Falls; Women's  Business Council, National; Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; World Health Organization; Wyoming : Disaster assistance; Yemen : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Yemen : President; Yemen : Relations with U.S.; Yemen : Suspected terrorist safe havens; Yemen : Terrorism; Yemen : U.S. Ambassador; Zambia : U.S. Ambassador. 