Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting a Report on the United States Nuclear Weapons Stockpile May 13, 2010 Dear ________: I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111–84) the report on the plan to enhance the safety, security, and reliability of the nuclear weapons stockpile of the United States; modernize the nuclear weapons complex; and maintain the delivery platforms for nuclear weapons, along with the estimate of budget requirements over a 10-year period. My Administration is dedicated to seeking the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons, and we are taking concrete steps toward that goal. As long as nuclear weapons still exist, I am firmly committed to maintaining a safe, secure, and effective nuclear arsenal to deter adversaries and reassure U.S. allies and other security partners. As we reduce the role of nuclear weapons in our national security strategy, it remains increasingly important that we ensure the safety, security, and effectiveness of our nuclear weapons stockpile. This report, and the plan it contains, is an important element of our assurance that the U.S. deterrent remains strong. Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA NOTE: Identical letters were sent to Daniel K. Inouye, chairman, and Thad Cochran, vice chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriations; Carl Levin, chairman, and John McCain, ranking member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; John F. Kerry, chairman, and Richard G. Lugar, ranking member, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations; David R. Obey, chairman, and Jerry Lewis, ranking member, House Committee on Appropriations; Ike Skelton, chairman, and Howard P. "Buck" McKeon, ranking member, House Committee on Armed Services; and Howard L. Berman, chairman, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, ranking member, House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Categories: Communications to Congress : U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile, letter transmitting report. Subjects: Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Security; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile, reduction. DCPD Number: DCPD201000375. 