Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2010 Statement on Senate Action on Defense Authorization Legislation December 9, 2010 I am extremely disappointed that yet another filibuster has prevented the Senate from moving forward with the "National Defense Authorization Act." Despite having the bipartisan support of a clear majority of Senators, a minority of Senators are standing in the way of the funding upon which our troops, veterans, and military families depend. This annual bill has been enacted each of the past 48 years, and our Armed Forces deserve nothing less this year. A minority of Senators were willing to block this important legislation largely because they oppose the repeal of "don't ask, don't tell." As Commander in Chief, I have pledged to repeal this discriminatory law, a step supported by the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and informed by a comprehensive study that shows overwhelming majorities of our Armed Forces are prepared to serve with Americans who are openly gay or lesbian. A great majority of the American people agree. This law weakens our national security, diminishes our military readiness, and violates fundamental American principles of fairness, integrity, and equality. I want to thank Majority Leader Reid, Armed Services Committee Chairman Levin, and Senators Lieberman and Collins for all the work they have done on this bill. While today's vote was disappointing, it must not be the end of our efforts. I urge the Senate to revisit these important issues during the lame duck session. NOTE: The statement referred to H.R. 5136. Categories: Statements by the President : Defense authorization legislation, Senate action. Names: Collins, Susan M.; Gates, Robert M.; Levin, Carl; Lieberman, Joseph I.; Mullen, Michael G.; Reid, Harry. Subjects: Armed Forces, U.S. : "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, repeal; Armed Forces, U.S. : Funding; Congress : Senate :: Armed Services Committee; Congress : Senate :: Majority leader; Defense and national security : Defense authorization legislation; Defense, Department of : "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, report; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Funding. DCPD Number: DCPD201001057. 