Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2009 Remarks Prior to a Meeting With Senior Officials at the Federal Bureau of Investigation and an Exchange With Reporters April 28, 2009 The President. Hello, everybody. Good to see you. I'm really looking forward to having a chance to talk to Bob and the rest of his team. He has been integral in many of our national security conversations, our counterterrorism strategy. I am extraordinarily pleased with the job that the Director has done not just during my tenure in office, but preceding me. By all accounts, the FBI has done an outstanding job of transitioning during an age of terrorism, cyber threats, a whole host—identity theft—a whole host of new challenges. They have been able to adapt. And with the Director at the helm, I have very, very great confidence that the FBI will continue to help keep the American people safe. I'm also pleased to see that there's been, I think, greatly improved coordination between the FBI and State and local law enforcement officials, something that had not always been there previously. I think it's been greatly improved over the last several years. So this gives me, basically, an opportunity to hear directly from the FBI, and to say thank you to all the dedicated agents and everybody who's out there working in the field to keep us safe each and every day. All right. Air Force Presidential Jet Photo Opportunity Over New York City Q. Sir, what do you think of the Air Force One incident—— The President. No—no questions—— Q. ——over New York City yesterday, sir? Q. Are you concerned about New York City yesterday, sir, with the Air Force plane? The President. It was a mistake, as was stated. It was something we found out about along with all of you, and it will not happen again. Thank you. NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. at the J. Edgar Hoover FBI Building. In his remarks, he referred to Robert S. Mueller, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation. A tape was not available for verification of the content of these remarks. Categories: Addresses and Remarks :  Federal Bureau of Investigation :: Meeting with senior officials; Interviews With the News Media : Exchanges with reporters :: Washington, DC. Locations: Washington, DC. Names: Mueller, Robert S., III Subjects: Justice, Department of : Federal Bureau of Investigation. DCPD Number: DCPD200900297. 