Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2009 Nominations Submitted to the Senate December 25, 2009 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service Officers. Submitted January 20 Steven Chu, of California, to be Secretary of Energy. Hillary Rodham Clinton, of New York, to be Secretary of State. Thomas Andrew Daschle, of South Dakota, to be Secretary of Health and Human Services. Shaun L.S. Donovan, of New York, to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Arne Duncan, of Illinois, to be Secretary of Education. Timothy F. Geithner, of New York, to be Secretary of the Treasury. Eric H. Holder, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Attorney General. Lisa Perez Jackson, of New Jersey, to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Ronald Kirk, of Texas, to be U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Ray LaHood, of Illinois, to be Secretary of Transportation. Janet Ann Napolitano, of Arizona, to be Secretary of Homeland Security. Peter R. Orszag, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Susan E. Rice, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations. Susan E. Rice, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. Christina Duckworth Romer, of California, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Edward P. Lazear. Kenneth Lee Salazar, of Colorado, to be Secretary of the Interior. Eric K. Shinseki, of Hawaii, to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Hilda L. Solis, of California, to be Secretary of Labor. Thomas J. Vilsack, of Iowa, to be Secretary of Agriculture. Dennis Cutler Blair, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of National Intelligence, vice J. Michael McConnell, resigned. Michele A. Flournoy, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Eric S. Edelman, resigned. Gary Gensler, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2012, vice Rueben Jeffery III, resigned. Gary Gensler, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, vice Rueben Jeffery III, resigned. Austan Dean Goolsbee, of Illinois, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Katherine Baicker, resigned. Robert F. Hale, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), vice Tina Westby Jonas, resigned. John P. Holdren, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice John M. Marburger III. Jeh Charles Johnson, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of Defense, vice William J. Haynes II, resigned. Jacob J. Lew, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources (new position). Jane Lubchenco, of Oregon, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Conrad Lautenbacher, Jr., resigned. William J. Lynn III, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense, vice Gordon England. Robert L. Nabors II, of New Jersey, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Stephen S. McMillin, resigned. Cecilia Elena Rouse, of California, to be a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Donald B. Marron, resigned. Mary L. Schapiro, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2014, vice Christopher Cox, resigned. James Braidy Steinberg, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of State, vice John D. Negroponte. Nancy Helen Sutley, of California, to be a member of the Council on Environmental Quality, vice James Laurence Connaughton. Daniel K. Tarullo, Of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 14 years from February 1, 2008, vice Randall S. Kroszner, term expired. Submitted January 26 Elena Kagan, of Massachusetts, to be Solicitor General of the United States, vice Gregory G. Garre, resigned. David W. Ogden, of Virginia, to be Deputy Attorney General, vice Mark R. Filip. Submitted January 27 Timothy F. Geithner, of New York, to be the U.S. Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the Asian Development Bank; U.S. Governor of the African Development Fund; U.S. Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Henry M. Paulson, Jr., resigned. Submitted January 30 Leon E. Panetta, of California, to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice General Michael V. Hayden, United States Air Force. Thomas John Perrelli, of Virginia, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Kevin J. O'Connor, resigned. Withdrawn February 9 Thomas Andrew Daschle, of South Dakota, to be Secretary of Health and Human Services, which was sent to the Senate on January 20, 2009. Submitted February 11 David S. Kris, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice J. Patrick Rowan, resigned. Dawn Elizabeth Johnsen, of Indiana, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jack Landman Goldsmith III, resigned. Lanny A. Breuer, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Alice S. Fisher, resigned. Christine Anne Varney, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Thomas O. Barnett, resigned. Submitted February 25 Jane Holl Lute, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Paul A. Schneider, resigned. Tony West, of California, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Gregory G. Katsas, resigned. Submitted February 27 David J. Hayes, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice Patricia Lynn Scarlett, resigned. Karen Gordon Mills, of Maine, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Steven C. Preston, resigned. Submitted March 3 Seth David Harris, of New Jersey, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor, vice Howard Radzely, resigned. Submitted March 4 John Berry, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management for a term of 4 years, vice Linda M. Springer, resigned. Ronald C. Sims, of Washington, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Romolo A. Bernardi, resigned. Submitted March 10 Sherburne B. Abbott, of Texas, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Duncan T. Moore, resigned.  David S. Cohen, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing, Department of the Treasury, vice Patrick M. O'Brien, resigned.  Dana G. Gresham, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Simon Charles Gros.  Alan B. Krueger, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Phillip L. Swagel, resigned.  James N. Miller, Jr., of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Christopher Ryan Henry.  John Morton, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Julie L. Myers, resigned. Submitted March 11 Esther Brimmer, of the District of Colombia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (International Organization Affairs), vice Brian H. Hook, resigned. Jonathan Z. Cannon, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Marcus C. Peacock, resigned. Ivo H. Daalder, of Virginia, to be U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Karl Winfrid Eikenberry, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Ivan K. Fong, of Ohio, to be General Counsel, Department of Homeland Security, vice Philip J. Perry, resigned. Philip H. Gordon, of the District of Colombia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (European and Eurasian Affairs), vice Daniel Fried, resigned. W. Scott Gould, of the District of Colombia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Gordon H. Mansfield, resigned. Christopher R. Hill, of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq. Richard Rahul Verma, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs), vice Matthew A. Reynolds, resigned. Melanne Verveer, of the District of Colombia, to be Ambassador at Large for Women's Global Issues. Submitted March 12 Thomas L. Strickland,  of Colorado, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, vice R. Lyle Laverty.  Alexander Vershbow,  of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Mary Beth Long, resigned. Submitted March 16 Ladda Tammy Duckworth, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Public and Intergovernmental Affairs), vice Lisette M. Mondello, resigned. R. Gil Kerlikowske, of Washington, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice John P. Walters, resigned.  Roy W. Kienitz, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, vice Jeffrey Shane, resigned.  Gary Locke, of Washington, to be Secretary of Commerce.  Demetrios J. Marantis, of the District of Columbia, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Peter F. Allgeier, resigned.  Regina McCarthy, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Jeffrey R. Holmstead, resigned.  Kim N. Wallace, of Texas, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Kevin I. Fromer, resigned.  Submitted March 17 William V. Corr, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Tevi David Troy, resigned. David F. Hamilton, of Indiana, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit, vice Kenneth F. Ripple, retired. William Craig Fugate, of Florida, to be Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice R. David Paulison.  Rose Eilene Gottemoeller, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Verification and Compliance), vice Paula A. DeSutter, resigned.  Demetrios J. Marantis, of the District of Columbia, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Karan K. Bhatia, resigned.  Kathleen Sebelius, of Kansas, to be Secretary of Health and Human Services. Withdrawn March 17 Demetrios J. Marantis, of the District of Columbia, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Peter F. Allgeier, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on March 16, 2009. Submitted March 18 Russlynn Ali, of California, to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Department of Education, vice Stephanie Johnson Monroe, resigned.  Susan Flood Burk, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Special Representative of the President, with the rank of Ambassador.  Ashton B. Carter, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, vice John J. Young, Jr.  Carmel Martin, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary for Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development, Department of Education, vice Williamson Evers, resigned.  James W. Miller, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, vice Mark Everett Keenum, resigned.  Charles P. Rose, of Illinois, to be General Counsel, Department of Education, vice Kent D. Talbert, resigned. Ronald H. Weich,  of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice William Emil Moschella. Submitted March 19 April S. Boyd,  of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Nathaniel F. Wienecke, resigned.  Peter Cunningham,  of Illinois, to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Outreach, Department of Education, vice Lauren M. Maddox.  Michelle DePass,  of New York, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Judith Elizabeth Ayres, resigned.  Brian Vincent Kennedy,  of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Kristine Ann Iverson, resigned.  Kathleen A. Merrigan,  of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture, vice Charles F. Conner, resigned. Submitted March 23 Lael Brainard,  of the District of Columbia, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice David H. McCormick, resigned.  Johnnie Carson,  of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of  State (African Affairs), vice Jendayi Elizabeth Frazer, resigned.  Julius Genachowski,  of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2008, vice Jonathan Steven Adelstein, term expired.  Cynthia J. Giles,  of Rhode Island, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Granta Y. Nakayama, resigned.  Kristina M. Johnson,  of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Clarence H. Albright, resigned.  Harold Hongju Koh,  of Connecticut, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State, vice John B. Bellinger III, resigned.  Joe Leonard, Jr.,  of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Margo M. McKay, resigned.  Submitted March 24 Marisa J. Demeo, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Rufus Gunn King III, retired.  Florence Y. Pan, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Linda Turner Hamilton. Withdrawn March 24 Stuart Gordon Nash, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Rufus Gunn King III, retired, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2009.  Submitted March 25 Margaret A. Hamburg, of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Andrew von Eschenbach, resigned. Peter A. Kovar, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Sheila McNamara Greenwood. Dallas P. Tonsager, of South Dakota, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, vice Thomas C. Dorr, resigned. Submitted March 26 Luis C. de Baca, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking, with the rank of Ambassador at Large, vice Mark P. Lagon, resigned.  T. Michael Kerr, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Patrick Pizzella, resigned.  Steven Elliot Koonin, of California, to be Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy, vice Raymond L. Orbach, resigned.  Linda A. Puchala, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2009, vice Read Van de Water, term expired.  Linda A. Puchala, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2012 (reappointment). Yvette Roubideaux, of Arizona, to be Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, for the term of 4 years, vice Robert G. McSwain, resigned.  Joseph C. Szabo, of Illinois, to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, vice Joseph H. Boardman. Submitted March 31 Thomas E. Perez, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Wan J. Kim.  Lawrence E. Strickling, of Illinois, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, vice John M.R. Kneuer.  Hilary Chandler Tompkins, of New Mexico, to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior, vice David Longly Bernhardt, resigned.  Ines R. Triay, of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management), vice James A. Rispoli, resigned.  Withdrawn March 31 Jonathan Z. Cannon, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Marcus C. Peacock, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on March 11, 2009. Submitted April 2  Andre M. Davis, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Francis D. Murnaghan, Jr., deceased.  Gerard E. Lynch, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Chester J. Straub, retired. Jo-Ellen Darcy, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice John Paul Woodley, Jr. Krysta Harden, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Linda Avery Strachan, resigned. Scott Blake Harris, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice David R. Hill, resigned. Timothy W. Manning, of New Mexico, to be Deputy Administrator for National Preparedness, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Dennis R. Schrader. John U. Sepulveda, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Human Resources), vice Michael W. Hager. Submitted April 20 Peter H. Appel, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation, vice Paul R. Brubaker, resigned.  Helen R. Kanovsky, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Robert M. Couch.  Cameron F. Kerry, of Massachusetts, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice Lily Fu Claffee, resigned.  Robert S. Rivkin, of Illinois, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, vice David James Gribbin IV, resigned.  William K. Sessions III, of Vermont, to be Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, vice Ricardo H. Hinojosa.  John D. Trasvina, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Kim Kendrick, resigned. Roger W. Baker, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Information and Technology), vice Robert T. Howard, resigned.  Rand Beers, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary, Department of Homeland Security, vice Robert D. Jamison, resigned.  Raphael William Bostic, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Darlene F. Williams, resigned.  Michael L. Connor, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of Reclamation, vice Robert W. Johnson.  Philip J. Crowley, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Public Affairs), vice Sean Ian McCormack, resigned.  John Q. Easton, of Illinois, to be Director of the Institute of Education Science, Department of Education for a term of 6 years, vice Grover J. Whitehurst, term expired.  Larry J. EchoHawk, of Utah, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Carl Joseph Artman, resigned.  Jeffrey D. Feltman, of Ohio, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs), vice C. David Welch, resigned.  Gabriella Cecilia Gomez, of California, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education, vice Holly A. Kuzmich, resigned.  Wallace C. Gregson, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice James Shinn. William A. Gunn, of Virginia, to be General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Paul J. Hutter.  Priscilla E. Guthrie, of Virginia, to be Chief Information Officer, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice Dale W. Meyerrose, resigned.  Sandra Brooks Henriquez, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Orlando J. Cabrera.  Fred P. Hochberg, of New York, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2013, vice James Lambright, term expired.  Bonnie D. Jenkins, of New York, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Coordinator for Threat Reduction Programs.  Elizabeth Lee King, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Robert L. Wilkie, resigned.  Howard K. Koh, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Joxel Garcia, resigned.  Raymond Edwin Mabus, Jr., of Mississippi, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Donald C. Winter.  George Wheeler Madison, of Connecticut, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, vice Robert F. Hoyt, resigned.  Kathleen Martinez, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Neil Romano, resigned.  Judith A. McHale, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice James K. Glassman, resigned.  A. Thomas McLellan, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice Scott M. Burns, resigned.  Michael Nacht, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Joseph A. Benkert. Daniel B. Poneman, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, vice Jeffrey Clay Sell, resigned. Donald Michael Remy, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Benedict S. Cohen, resigned.  Jose D. Riojas, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Operations, Security, and Preparedness), vice Charles L. Hopkins, resigned.  Francisco J. Sanchez, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, vice Christopher A. Padilla, resigned. David B. Sandalow, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs and Domestic Policy), vice Karen Alderman Harbert, resigned. Miriam E. Sapiro, of the District of Columbia, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice John K. Veroneau, resigned. Peter S. Silva, of California, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Benjamin Grumbles, resigned. M. Patricia Smith, of New York, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor, vice Gregory F. Jacob, resigned. Mary L. Smith, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Nathan J. Hochman, resigned. Mathy Stanislaus, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Susan P. Bodine, resigned. Rhea S. Suh, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice R. Thomas Weimer, resigned. Cass R. Sunstein, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice Susan E. Dudley. Neal S. Wolin, of Illinois, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Robert M. Kimmitt, resigned. Robert O. Work, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Dionel M. Aviles, resigned. Submitted April 21 David H. Stevens, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Brian D. Montgomery. Jonathan Steven Adelstein, of South Dakota, to be Administrator, Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture, vice James M. Andrew, resigned. Thomasina Rogers, of Maryland, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2015 (reappointment). Submitted April 23 Victor M. Mendez, of Arizona, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, vice Thomas J. Madison, resigned.  Stephen Alan Owens, of Arizona, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice James B. Gulliford, resigned.  Rajiv J. Shah, of Washington, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics, vice Gale A. Buchanan, resigned. Submitted April 27 Daniel Benjamin, of the District of Columbia, to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank and status of Ambassador at Large, vice Dell L. Dailey, resigned.  Robert Orris Blake, Jr., of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs, vice Richard A. Boucher, resigned.  Phyllis Corrine Borzi, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Bradford P. Campbell, resigned.  William F. Brinkman, of New Jersey, to be Director of the Office of Science, Department of Energy, vice Raymond L. Orbach, resigned.  Kurt M. Campbell, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs), vice Christopher R. Hill, resigned.  Anne Castle, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Mark A. Limbaugh.  David Heyman, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Stewart A. Baker, resigned.  Thomas R. Lamont, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Ronald J. James.  John D. Porcari, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of Transportation, vice Thomas J. Barrett, resigned.  Pearlie S. Reed, of Arkansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, vice Boyd Kevin Rutherford.  Catherine Radford Zoi, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy), vice Alexander A. Karsner, resigned. Submitted April 28 Rebecca M. Blank, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, vice Cynthia A. Glassman, resigned.  Robert S. Litt, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, vice Benjamin A. Powell, resigned.  Laurie I. Mikva, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2010, vice Florentino Subia, term expired.  Paul N. Stockton, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Paul McHale, resigned. Submitted April 29 Eric P. Goosby, of California, to be Ambassador at Large and Coordinator of United States Government Activities to Combat HIV/AIDS Globally.  Martha J. Kanter, of California, to be Under Secretary of Education, vice Sara Alicia Tucker, resigned.  Peter M. Rogoff, of Virginia, to be Federal Transit Administrator, vice James S. Simpson, resigned.  Andrew Charles Weber, of Virginia, to be Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs, vice Frederick S. Celec. Kevin W. Concannon, of Maine, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, vice Nancy Montanez-Johner, resigned.  Robert M. Groves, of Michigan, to be Director of the Census, vice Steven H. Murdock, resigned. Submitted April 30 Charles A. Blanchard, of Arizona, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force, vice Mary L. Walker, resigned. Submitted May 1 Herbert M. Allison, Jr., of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (new position). Michael S. Barr, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice David George Nason, resigned. Submitted May 4 Kathy J. Greenlee, of Kansas, to be Assistant Secretary for Aging, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Josefina Carbonell, resigned.  Martha N. Johnson, of Maryland, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Lurita Alexis Doan, resigned.  Mercedes Marquez, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Susan D. Peppler, resigned.  Philip Mudd, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security (new position). John J. Sullivan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2013, vice Ellen L. Weintraub, term expired.  Submitted May 6 Wilma A. Lewis, of the Virgin Islands, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice C. Stephen Allred, resigned.  Carmen R. Nazario, of Puerto Rico, to be Assistant Secretary for Family Support, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Diane D. Rath.  Jane Oates, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Emily Stover DeRocco.  Tara Jeanne O'Toole, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology, Department of Homeland Security, vice Jay M. Cohen, resigned.  Eric P. Schwartz, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Ellen R. Sauerbrey.  Andrew J. Shapiro, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs), vice Mark Kimmitt, resigned.  Ellen O. Tauscher, of California, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, vice Robert Joseph, resigned. Submitted May 11 J. Randolph Babbitt, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the term of 5 years, vice Marion C. Blakey, term expired.  Lorelei Boylan, of New York, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp.  Jamie Michael Morin, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice John H. Gibson, resigned.  Stephen Woolman Preston, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice Scott W. Muller, resigned. Submitted May 12 William J. Wilkins, of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and an Assistant General Counsel in the Department of the Treasury, vice Donald Korb, resigned.  Jeffrey D. Zients, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Clay Johnson III, resigned. Christine M. Griffin, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, vice Howard Charles Weizmann, resigned. Submitted May 14 Aneesh Chopra, of Virginia, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Richard M. Russell, resigned.  Capricia Penavic Marshall, of the District of Columbia, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service, vice Nancy Goodman Brinker, resigned.  Submitted May 18  Zachary J. Lemnios, of Massachusetts, to be Director of Defense Research and Engineering, vice John J. Young, Jr.  Anthony W. Miller, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Education, vice Raymond Simon, resigned.  Richard G. Newell, of North Carolina, to be Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, vice Guy F. Caruso.  Rosa Gumataotao Rios, of California, to be Treasurer of the United States, vice Anna Escobedo Cabral, resigned. Submitted May 19 Philip L. Verveer, of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Communications and Information Policy in the Bureau of Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs and U.S. Coordinator for International Communications and Information Policy. Submitted May 20 Bartholomew Chilton, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2013 (reappointment). Colin Scott Cole Fulton, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Roger Romulus Martella, Jr.  Alejandro N. Mayorkas, of California, to be Director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security, vice Emilio T. Gonzalez. Submitted May 21 Paul T. Anastas, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice George M. Gray, resigned.  Cranston J. Mitchell, of Virginia, to be a Commissioner of the United States Parole Commission for a term of 6 years (reappointment).  Nancy J. Powell, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Director General of the Foreign Service, vice Harry K. Thomas, Jr., resigned. Submitted June 1 Patricia A. Butenis, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Maldives.  Christopher William Dell, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kosovo.  J. Michael Gilmore, of Virginia, to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, Department of Defense, vice Charles E. McQueary.  Gordon S. Heddell, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense, vice Claude M. Kicklighter, resigned.  Nicole Lurie, of Maryland, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Department of Health and Human Services, vice W. Craig Vanderwagen, resigned.  Deborah Matz, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring April 10, 2015, vice Rodney E. Hood, term expired. Dennis M. McCarthy, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Thomas Forrest Hall.  Ellen Gloninger Murray, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Charles E. Johnson, resigned.  Charles H. Rivkin, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to France, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Monaco.  Evan J. Segal, of Pennsylvania, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture, vice Charles R. Christopherson, Jr., resigned.  Thomas Alfred Shannon, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federative Republic of Brazil.  Sonia Sotomayor, of New York, to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, vice David H. Souter, retiring. Submitted June 2 Daniel Ginsberg, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Craig W. Duehring.  Louis B. Susman, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Submitted June 3 Laurie Susan Fulton, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Denmark.  Raymond M. Jefferson, of Hawaii, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Charles S. Ciccolella, resigned.  Daniel M. Tangherlini, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Peter B. McCarthy, resigned.  Daniel M. Tangherlini, of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice Peter B. McCarthy, resigned. Submitted June 4 Preet Bharara, of New York, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Michael J. Garcia, resigned.  Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years, vice Colleen Duffy Kiko, resigned.  Tristram J. Coffin, of Vermont, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Vermont for the term of 4 years, vice Thomas D. Anderson, resigned.  Ernest W. DuBester, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 29, 2012, vice Dale Cabaniss, resigned.  Jenny A. Durkan, of Washington, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington for the term of 4 years, vice John McKay, resigned.  Paul Joseph Fishman, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey for the term of 4 years, vice Christopher James Christie, resigned.  B. Todd Jones, of Minnesota, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota for the term of 4 years, vice Rachel K. Paulose, resigned.  John P. Kacavas, of New Hampshire, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Hampshire for the term of 4 years, vice Thomas P. Colantuono, resigned.  Christopher H. Schroeder, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Elisebeth C. Cook, resigned.  Joyce White Vance, of Alabama, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama for the term of 4 years, vice Alice Howze Martin. Submitted June 8 Anne Elizabeth Derse, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lithuania.  David C. Jacobson, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Canada.  Robert Malcolm McDowell, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2009 (reappointment). Thelma Melendez de Santa Ana, of California, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Kerri Layne Briggs.  Ignacia S. Moreno, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Ronald Jay Tenpas, resigned.  Stuart Gordon Nash, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Rafael Diaz, term expired.  Carlos Pascual, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mexico.  Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, of Wisconsin, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Thomas M. Sullivan.  Polly Trottenberg, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Tyler D. Duvall, resigned.  Arturo A. Valenzuela, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Western Hemisphere Affairs), vice Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., resigned. Submitted June 9 Robert S. Adler, of North Carolina, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2007, vice Stuart M. Statler, resigned.  Kenneth H. Merten, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti.  Maria Otero, of the District of Columbia, to be an Under Secretary of State (Democracy and Global Affairs), vice Paula J. Dobriansky, resigned.  William E. Spriggs, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Leon R. Sequeira, resigned.  Inez Moore Tenenbaum, of South Carolina, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2006, vice Harold D. Stratton, resigned.  Inez Moore Tenenbaum, of South Carolina, to be Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, vice Harold D. Stratton, resigned. Submitted June 10 Robert V. Abbey, of Nevada, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management, vice James L. Caswell, resigned. Harry R. Hoglander, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2011 (reappointment).  Timothy J. Roemer, of Indiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to India. Submitted June 11 Michael Anthony Battle, Sr., of Georgia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the African Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Donald Sternoff Beyer, Jr., of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Switzerland, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein. Martha Larzelere Campbell, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Donald Henry Gips, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa. Gordon Gray, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia. Rocco Landesman, of New York, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts for a term of 4 years, vice Dana Gioia, resigned. Alfonso E. Lenhardt, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania. John R. Nay, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname. John R. Norris, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2012, vice Joseph Timothy Kelliher, resigned. Daniel M. Rooney, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland. Richard J. Schmierer, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman. Pamela Jo Howell Slutz, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Burundi. Vinai K. Thummalapally, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize. Joseph W. Westphal, of New York, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Nelson M. Ford. Submitted June 16 Nicole A. Avant, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.  Howard W. Gutman, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belgium. Submitted June 17 Vilma S. Martinez, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Argentina.  Withdrawn June 17 Donald Michael Remy, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Benedict S. Cohen, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on April 20, 2009. Submitted June 18 Edward M. Avalos, of New Mexico, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, vice Bruce I. Knight, resigned.  Miguel Humberto Diaz, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Holy See.  Juan M. Garcia III, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice William A. Navas, Jr., resigned.  Deborah A.P. Hersman, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2013 (reappointment). Deborah A.P. Hersman, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years, vice Mark V. Rosenker, term expired.  David J. Kappos, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, vice Jonathan W. Dudas, resigned.  Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., of Maryland, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2012, vice A. Paul Anderson, resigned.  James J. Markowsky, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice Jeffrey D. Jarrett, resigned.  Warren F. Miller, Jr., of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy), vice Dennis R. Spurgeon.  Robert Perciasepe, of New York, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Marcus C. Peacock, resigned. Submitted June 19 Joseph A. Greenaway, Jr., of New Jersey, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Samuel A. Alito, Jr., elevated.  Beverly B. Martin, of Georgia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice R. Lanier Anderson III, retired. Mark Henry Gitenstein, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Romania.  Craig E. Hooks, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Luis Luna, resigned. Submitted June 22 John R. Bass, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Georgia. Charles F. Bolden, Jr., of Texas, to be Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Michael D. Griffin, resigned. Ertharin Cousin, of Illinois, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture. James B. Foley, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia. Lori Garver, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Shana L. Dale, resigned. Kenneth E. Gross, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tajikistan. Jerry P. Lanier, of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uganda. Warren F. Miller, Jr., of New Mexico, to be Director of the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, Department of Energy, vice Edward F. Sproat III, resigned. Teddy Bernard Taylor, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Papua New Guinea, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Solomon Islands and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Vanuatu. Submitted June 23 Joan M. Evans, of Oregon, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Congressional and Legislative Affairs), vice Christine O. Hill, resigned. Submitted June 24 James Legarde Hudson, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Kenneth L. Peel.  John Victor Roos, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan.  James B. Smith, of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Submitted June 25 Meredith Attwell Baker, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2011, vice Kevin J. Martin, resigned. Mignon L. Clyburn, of South Carolina, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2007, vice Deborah Taylor Tate, term expired. Judith Gail Garber, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia. Christopher A. Hart, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2012, vice Steven R. Chealander, resigned. Charlene Edwards Honeywell, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Susan C. Bucklew, retired. Kerri-Ann Jones, of Maine, to be an Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Claudia A. McMurray, resigned. Samuel Louis Kaplan, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco. David Killion, of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. James Knight, of Alabama, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Benin. Karen Kornbluh, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador. Bruce J. Oreck, of Colorado, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland. Charles Aaron Ray, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe. Jeffrey L. Viken, of South Dakota, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Dakota, vice Lawrence L. Piersol, retiring. Submitted July 6 Jonathan S. Addleton, of Georgia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mongolia.   Anthony Marion Babauta, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Leslie M. Turner, resigned.  Rafael Borras, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Elaine C. Duke, resigned.  Gayleatha Beatrice Brown, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso.  Patricia D. Cahill, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2014, vice Cheryl Feldman Halpern, term expired.  George H. Cohen, of Virginia, to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director, vice Arthur F. Rosenfeld, resigned.  Peggy E. Gustafson, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Small Business Administration, vice Eric M. Thorson.  Samuel D. Hamilton, of Mississippi, to be Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, vice H. Dale Hall, resigned.  Jon M. Huntsman, Jr., of Utah, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of China.  Earl Michael Irving, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America the Kingdom of Swaziland. Douglas W. Kmiec, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malta.  Joseph A. Main, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, vice Richard Stickler.  John M. McHugh, of New York, to be Secretary of the Army, vice Preston M. Geren.  David H. Thorne, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Italian Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of San Marino.  Withdrawn July 6 Philip Mudd, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security (new position), which was sent to the Senate on May 4, 2009.  Submitted July 7 Matthew Winthrop Barzun, of Kentucky, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Sweden.  William Carlton Eacho III, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Austria.  Alexander G. Garza, of Missouri, to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Jeffrey William Runge.  Fay Hartog-Levin, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands.  Susan L. Kurland, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Andrew B. Steinberg.  Patricia Newton Moller, of Arkansas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea.  Michael H. Posner, of New York, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, vice David J. Kramer, resigned.  Alexa E. Posny, of Kansas, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, vice Tracy Ralph Justesen.  Stephen J. Rapp, of Iowa, to be Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues, vice John Clint Williamson, resigned. Submitted July 8 Irene Cornelia Berger, of West Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of West Virginia, vice David A. Faber, retired.  Roberto A. Lange, of South Dakota, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Dakota, vice Charles B. Kornmann, retired. Submitted July 9 Rolena Klahn Adorno, of Connecticut, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2014, vice Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, term expired. Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014 (reappointment). Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2009, vice Dennis P. Walsh. Christopher P. Bertram, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Phyllis F. Scheinberg, resigned. Francis S. Collins, of Maryland, to be Director of the National Institutes of Health, vice Elias Adam Zerhouni. Sherry Glied, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Benjamin Eric Sasse, resigned. Brian Hayes, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2012, vice Robert J. Battista, term expired. James A. Leach, of Iowa, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities for a term of 4 years, vice Bruce Cole. Philip D. Murphy, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Germany. Mark Gaston Pearce, of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2013, vice Peter N. Kirsanow. Submitted July 13 Glyn T. Davies, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Glyn T. Davies, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador.  Jonathan B. Jarvis, of California, to be Director of the National Park Service, vice Mary Amelia Bomar, resigned.  Bryan Hayes Samuels, of Illinois, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Joan E. Ohl, resigned. Submitted July 14 Dennis K. Burke, of Arizona, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of 4 years, vice Diane J. Humetewa.  Brenda Dann-Messier, of Rhode Island, to be Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education, Department of Education, vice Troy R. Justesen.  Steven M. Dettelbach, of Ohio, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio for the term of 4 years, vice Gregory A. White, resigned.  Brendan V. Johnson, of South Dakota, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of South Dakota for the term of 4 years, vice Martin J. Jackley.  Karen Louise Loeffler, of Alaska, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Alaska for the term of 4 years, vice Timothy Mark Burgess, resigned.  Florence T. Nakakuni, of Hawaii, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Hawaii for the term of 4 years, vice Edward Hachiro Kubo, Jr. Carter M. Stewart, of Ohio, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio for the term of 4 years, vice Gregory Gordon Lockhart.  Aaron S. Williams, of Virginia, to be Director of the Peace Corps, vice Ronald A. Tschetter, resigned. Submitted July 15 Richard Serino, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Administrator and Chief Operating Officer, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Harvey E. Johnson, Jr., resigned. Submitted July 16 Jacqueline A. Berrien, of New York, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2014, vice Christine M. Griffin, term expired.  Anne S. Ferro, of Maryland, to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, vice John H. Hill, resigned.  Joseph G. Pizarchik, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, vice Brent T. Wahlquist, resigned.  Kenneth Albert Spearman, of Florida, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration for a term expiring May 21, 2014, vice Nancy C. Pellett, term expired. Submitted July 20 Daniel R. Elliott III, of Ohio, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2013, vice W. Douglas Buttrey, term expired.  Lee Andrew Feinstein, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Poland.  John R. Fernandez, of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, vice Santanu K. Baruah, resigned.  Jose Antonio Garcia, of Florida, to be Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact, Department of Energy, vice Theresa Alvillar-Speake, resigned.  Gary S. Guzy, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Environmental Quality (new position). Robert D. Hormats, of New York, to be an Under Secretary of State (Economic, Energy, and Agricultural Affairs), vice Reuben Jeffery III, resigned.  Marvin Krislov, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2014, vice Celeste Colgan, term expired.  Jill Sommers, of Kansas, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted July 22 Regina M. Benjamin, of Alabama, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a term of four years, vice Richard H. Carmona, term expired.  Alberto M. Fernandez, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.  Jeffrey Alan Goldstein, of New York, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Robert K. Steel, resigned. Submitted July 23 Ketanji Brown Jackson, of Maryland, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2013, vice Michael E. Horowitz, term expired. Submitted July 24 Dennis F. Hightower, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce, vice John J. Sullivan, resigned. Submitted July 27 Alexander G. Garza, of Missouri, to be Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Jeffrey William Runge. Richard Serino, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Harvey E. Johnson, Jr., resigned. Kenneth Albert Spearman, of Florida, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration for the remainder of the term expiring May 21, 2010, vice Dallas Tonsager. Kenneth Albert Spearman, of Florida, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration for a term expiring May 21, 2016 (reappointment). Withdrawn July 27 Alexander G. Garza, of Missouri, to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer, Department of Homeland Security, vice Jeffrey William Runge, which was sent to the Senate on July 7, 2009. Richard Serino, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Administrator and Chief Operating Officer, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Harvey E. Johnson, Jr., resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 15, 2009. Kenneth Albert Spearman, of Florida, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration for a term expiring May 21, 2014, vice Nancy C. Pellett, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on July 16, 2009. Submitted July 28 Kelvin James Cochran, of Louisiana, to be Administrator of the United States Fire Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Gregory B. Cade, resigned.  David S. Ferriero, of North Carolina, to be Archivist of the United States, vice Allen Weinstein, resigned.  Suedeen G. Kelly, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2014 (reappointment). Mary Jo Wills, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mauritius, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Seychelles.  Submitted July 29 Robert D. Hormats, of New York, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the African Development Fund; U.S. Alternate Governor of the Asian Development Bank; and U.S. Alternate Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Reuben Jeffery III. Submitted July 31 Edward M. Avalos, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Bruce I. Knight.  Daniel G. Bogden, of Nevada, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Nevada for the term of 4 years, vice Gregory A. Brower.  Kevin W. Concannon, of Maine, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Nancy Montanez-Johner.  Deborah K. R. Gilg, of Nebraska, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Nebraska for the term of 4 years, vice Joe W. Stecher.  Susan Tsui Grundmann, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board, vice Neil McPhie.  Susan Tsui Grundmann, of Virginia, to be member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of 7 years expiring March 1, 2016, vice Neil McPhie, term expired.  Timothy J. Heaphy, of Virginia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia for the term of 4 years, vice John L. Brownlee.  Abdul K. Kallon, of Alabama, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice U. W. Clemon, retired.  Kathleen A. Merrigan, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Charles F. Conner.  James W. Miller, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Mark Everett Keenum.  Peter F. Neronha, of Rhode Island, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Rhode Island for the term of 4 years, vice Robert Clark Corrente.  Jacqueline H. Nguyen, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Nora M. Manella, resigned.  Evan J. Segal, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Charles R. Christopherson, Jr.  Dallas P. Tonsager, of South Dakota, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Thomas C. Dorr.  Anne Marie Wagner, of Virginia, to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of 7 years expiring March 1, 2014, vice Barbara J. Sapin, resigned.  David Lyle Cargill, Jr., of New Hampshire, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of New Hampshire for the term of 4 years, vice Stephen Robert Monier.  David Edward Demag, of Vermont, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Vermont for the term of 4 years, vice John R. Edwards.  Genevieve Lynn May, of Louisiana, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana for the term of 4 years, vice Michael David Credo. Submitted August 3 Anne M. Northup, of Kentucky, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2004, vice Saundra Brown Armstrong, resigned. Daniel I. Werfel, of Virginia, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Linda Morrison Combs, resigned.  Terry A. Yonkers, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice William Anderson, resigned. Submitted August 4 Marcia K. McNutt, of California, to be Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, vice Mark Myers, resigned. Submitted August 5 Frank Kendall III, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, vice James I. Finley, resigned. David Morris Michaels, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Edwin G. Foulke, Jr. Submitted August 6 Kenyen Ray Brown, of Alabama, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama for the term of 4 years, vice Deborah Jean Johnson Rhodes, resigned. Neil H. MacBride, of Virginia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia for the term of 4 years, vice Charles P. Rosenberg, resigned.  Steven Gerard O'Donnell, of Rhode Island, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Rhode Island for the term of 4 years, vice Burton Stallwood.  Jane Branstetter Stranch, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Martha Craig Daughtrey, retired.  Benjamin B. Wagner, of California, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of California for the term of 4 years, vice McGregor William Scott, resigned.  Jim R. Esquea, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Vincent J. Ventimiglia, Jr., resigned.  Jose W. Fernandez, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs), vice Daniel S. Sullivan, resigned.  David C. Gompert, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, vice Donald M. Kerr, resigned.  Robert James Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2011, vice Bernice Phillips, term expired.  William E. Kennard, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.  John Gerson Levi, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2011, vice Herbert S. Garten, term expired.  Martha L. Minow, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2011, vice David Hall, term expired.  Julie A. Reiskin, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2010, vice Thomas R. Meites, term expired.  Alan D. Solomont, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Spain, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Andorra. Benjamin B. Tucker, of New York, to be Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice Scott M. Burns. Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2011, vice Sarah M. Singleton, term expired. Edward Milton Chen, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Martin J. Jenkins, resigned. Dolly M. Gee, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice George P. Schiavelli, resigned. Richard Seeborg, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Maxine M. Chesney, retired. Thomas I. Vanaskie, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Franklin S. Van Antwerpen, retired. Submitted August 7 Barry B. White, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Norway. Submitted September 10 Scott D. O'Malia, of Michigan, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 2010, vice Walter Lukken, resigned.  Scott D. O'Malia, of Michigan, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2015 (reappointment). Harris D. Sherman, of California, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, vice Mark Edward Rey, resigned.  Harris D. Sherman, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Mark Edward Rey. Submitted September 14 Barbara J. Bennett, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Lyons Gray, resigned.  Jeffrey L. Bleich, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Australia.  Barbara Short Haskew, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2014, vice Donald R. DePriest, resigned.  Eric L. Hirschhorn, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, vice Mario Mancuso, resigned.  Barbara Milano Keenan, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice H. Emory Widener, Jr., retired.  Michael W. Punke, of Montana, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Peter F. Allgeier, resigned.  Laurie O. Robinson, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jeffrey Leigh Sedgwick, resigned.  Leslie V. Rowe, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique. Submitted September 15 Frederick D. Barton, of Maine, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.  Chai Rachel Feldblum, of Maryland, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Leslie Silverman, term expired.  Carmen Lomellin, of Virginia, to be Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Hector E. Morales, resigned.  Irvin M. Mayfield, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2014, vice Jerry Pinkney, term expired.  Cynthia L. Quarterman, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation, vice Carl T. Johnson.  Cynthia Stroum, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg. Submitted September 17 Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Michael J. Moore, of Georgia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice Maxwell Wood.  Carmen Milagros Ortiz, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts for the term of 4 years, vice Michael J. Sullivan.  Erroll G. Southers, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Edmund S. Hawley, resigned.  Edward J. Tarver, of Georgia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice Edmund A. Booth, Jr. Submitted September 21 Gustavo Arnavat, of New York, to be U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Miguel R. San Juan.  Arun Majumdar, of California, to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects AgencyEnergy, Department of Energy (new position).  Elizabeth M. Robinson, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Ronald Spoehel, resigned.  Daniel W. Yohannes, of Colorado, to be Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation, vice John J. Danilovich, resigned. Submitted September 24 Frederick D. Barton, of Maine, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Bill Delahunt, of Massachusetts, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Elaine Schuster, of Florida, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Islam A. Siddiqui, of Virginia, to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Richard T. Crowder. Christopher H. Smith, of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Mary Burce Warlick, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Serbia.  Wellington E. Webb, of Colorado, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Jide J. Zeitlin, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. Jide J. Zeitlin, of New York, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. Submitted September 25 Richard G. Callahan, of Missouri, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri for the term of 4 years, vice Catherine Lucille Hanaway. Michael W. Cotter, of Montana, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Montana for the term of 4 years, vice William Walter Mercer. Robert R. King, of Virginia, to be Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights Issues, with the rank of Ambassador. Nicholas A. Klinefeldt, of Iowa, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa for the term of 4 years, vice Matthew G. Whitaker. Marisa Lago, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Neel T. Kashkari, resigned. Stephanie M. Rose, of Iowa, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa for the term of 4 years, vice Charles W. Larson, Sr., resigned. Laura Gore Ross, of New York, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Submitted September 29 Adele Logan Alexander, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2014, vice Marguerite Sullivan, term expired. Alan D. Bersin, of California, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice W. Ralph Basham. Gladys Commons, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Douglas A. Brook, resigned. Victoria Angelica Espinel, of the District of Columbia, to be Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Executive Office of the President (new position). Steven L. Jacques, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Cathy M. MacFarlane. Michael C. Polt, of Tennessee, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia. Harris D. Sherman, of Colorado, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, vice Mark Edward Rey, resigned. Harris D. Sherman, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Mark Edward Rey. Withdrawn September 29  Harris D. Sherman, of California, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, vice Mark Edward Rey, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on September 10, 2009. Harris D. Sherman, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Mark Edward Rey, which was sent to the Senate on September 10, 2009. Submitted September 30 Louis B. Butler, Jr., of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Wisconsin, vice John C. Shabaz, retired.  Sanford C. Coats, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma for the term of 4 years, vice John Charles Richter, resigned.  John Leroy Kammerzell, of Colorado, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Colorado for the term of 4 years, vice Edward Zahren.  Mark Anthony Martinez, of Nebraska, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Nebraska for the term of 4 years, vice Brian Michael Ennis, resigned.  Mary Elizabeth Phillips, of Missouri, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Missouri for the term of 4 years, vice John Wood, resigned.  Stephen James Smith, of Georgia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice James Thomas Roberts, Jr.  Stephanie Villafuerte, of Colorado, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Colorado for the term of 4 years, vice Troy A. Eid, resigned.  John F. Tefft, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ukraine. Submitted October 1 Carolyn W. Colvin, of Maryland, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2013, vice Andrew G. Biggs, resigned. Christine H. Fox, of Virginia, to be Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense (new position). Roszell Hunter, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2013, vice J. Joseph Grandmaison, term expired. Sara Manzano-Diaz, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor, vice Shinae Chun, resigned. Paul K. Martin, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Robert Watson Cobb. Mark R. Rosekind, of California, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of the term expiring term expiring December 31, 2009, vice Kathryn Higgins, resigned. Mark R. Rosekind, of California, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted October 5 Susan B. Carbon, of New Hampshire, to be Director of the Violence Against Women Office, Department of Justice, vice Cynthia Dyer, resigned. Charles Collyns, of Maryland, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Clay Lowery, resigned. Patrick Alfred Corvington, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, vice David Eisner. Daniel I. Gordon, of the District of Columbia, to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, vice Paul A. Denett. Pamela S. Hyde, of New Mexico, to be Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Terry L. Cline. John H. Laub, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the National Institute of Justice, vice David W. Hagy, resigned. Richard Sorian, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Christina H. Pearson, resigned. James B. Warlick, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria. Submitted October 6   Denny Chin, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Robert D. Sack, retired. Mary John Miller, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Anthony W. Ryan, resigned. Michael F. Mundaca, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Eric Solomon, resigned. O. Rogeriee Thompson, of Rhode Island, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Bruce M. Selya, retired. Submitted October 7  Patrick Gallagher, of Maryland, to be Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, vice William Alan Jeffrey. Submitted October 8   David Huebner, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to New Zealand, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Samoa. Neil G. McBride, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2013, vice Skila Harris, resigned. David Daniel Nelson, of Minnesota, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. Submitted October 13 George Apostolakis, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2014, vice Peter B. Lyons, term expired.  Elizabeth M. Harman, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice W. Ross Ashley III, resigned.  Eleni Tsakopoulos Kounalakis, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Hungary.  Sharon Jeanette Lubinski, of Minnesota, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Minnesota for the term of 4 years, vice Michael G. McGinn.  William D. Magwood IV, of Maryland, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2010, vice Edward McGaffigan, Jr.  William D. Magwood IV, of Maryland, to be member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2015 (reappointment). Rosanna Malouf Peterson, of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Washington, vice Frederick L. Van Sickle, retired.  Peter Alan Prahar, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia.  Christina Reiss, of Vermont, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Vermont, vice John Garvan Murtha, retired.  Withdrawn October 13 Lorelei Boylan, of New York, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp, which was sent to the Senate on May 11, 2009.  Submitted October 15 Anne Slaughter Andrew, of Indiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica.  Joseph F. Bader, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2012 (reappointment). Charles P. Blahous III, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice Thomas R. Saving.  Charles P. Blahous III, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice Thomas R. Saving.  Charles P. Blahous III, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice Thomas R. Saving.  Alan C. Kessler, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2015 (reappointment). Scott Boyer Quehl, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Otto Wolff, resigned.  Scott Boyer Quehl, of Pennsylvania, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Commerce, vice Otto Wolff, resigned.  Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice John L. Palmer.  Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice John L. Palmer.  Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years, vice John L. Palmer.  Jessie Hill Roberson, of Virginia, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2013, vice A. J. Eggenberger, resigned.  Lynnae M. Ruttledge, of Washington, to be Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration, Department of Education, vice Joanne M. Wilson, resigned.  Clifford L. Stanley, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice David S. C. Chu, resigned.  Jill Long Thompson, of Indiana, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring May 21, 2014, vice Nancy C. Pellett, term expired.  Peter Stanley Winokur, of Maryland, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted October 22 Betty E. King, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Warren W. Tichenor, resigned.  Lillian A. Sparks, of Maryland, to be Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Quanah Crossland Stamps, resigned. Submitted October 26 Philip S. Goldberg, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research), vice Randall M. Fort, resigned.  P. David Lopez, of Arizona, to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term of 4 years, vice Ronald S. Cooper, resigned.  Caryn A. Wagner, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security (new position). Submitted October 28 Philip E. Coyle III, of California, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Rosina M. Bierbaum.  Lawrence G. Romo, of Texas, to be Director of Selective Service, vice William A. Chatfield, resigned. Submitted October 29   William M. Conley, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Wisconsin, vice Barbara B. Crabb, retired. Brian Anthony Jackson, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana, vice Frank J. Polozola, retired. Frank Kendall III, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (new position). Suresh Kumar, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, vice Israel Hernandez, resigned. James P. Lynch, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, vice Jeffrey L. Sedgwick, resigned. Withdrawn October 29  Frank Kendall III, of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, vice James I. Finley, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on August 5, 2009. Submitted November 3 Victoria A. Lipnic, of Virginia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for the remainder of the term expiring July 1, 2010, vice Naomi Churchill Earp. Victoria A. Lipnic, of Virginia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Paul R. Verkuil, of Florida, to be Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States for the term of 5 years, vice Thomasina V. Rogers, term expired. Submitted November 4 Albert Diaz, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice William W. Wilkins, Jr., retired.  John Gibbons, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Massachusetts for the term of 4 years, vice Anthony Dichio.  Robert William Heun, of Alaska, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Alaska for the term of 4 years, vice Randy Merlin Johnson.  Grayling Grant Williams, of Maryland, to be Director of the Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security, vice Uttam Dhillon, resigned. James A. Wynn, Jr., of North Carolina, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice James Dickson Phillips, Jr., retired. Submitted November 10 Rajiv J. Shah, of Washington, to be Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Henrietta Holsman Fore, resigned. Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2013, vice W. Scott Railton, term expired. Sandford Blitz, of Maine, to be Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission (new position). Erin C. Conaton, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Ronald M. Sega, resigned. Douglas A. Criscitello, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice John W. Cox, resigned. Anthony R. Corscia, of New Jersey, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years (new position). Albert DiClemente, of Delaware, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for the remainder of the term expiring July 26, 2011, vice R. Hunter Biden. Submitted November 10 Rajiv J. Shah, of Washington, to be Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Henrietta Holsman Fore, resigned. Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2013, vice W. Scott Railton, term expired. Sandford Blitz, of Maine, to be Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission (new position). Erin C. Conaton, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Ronald M. Sega, resigned. Douglas A. Criscitello, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice John W. Cox, resigned. Anthony R. Corscia, of New Jersey, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years (new position). Albert DiClemente, of Delaware, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for the remainder of the term expiring July 26, 2011, vice R. Hunter Biden. Submitted November 16 Walter Crawford Jones, of Maryland, to be U.S. Director of the African Development Bank for a term of 5 years, vice Mimi Alemayehou. Ian Hoddy Solomon, of Maryland, to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 2 years, vice Eli Whitney Debevoise II, term expired. Leocadia Irine Zak, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Trade and Development Agency, vice Larry Woodrow Walther, resigned. Submitted November 17 Julie Simone Brill, of Vermont, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 2009, vice Pamela Harbour, term expired. Scott H. DeLisi, of Minnesota, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Nepal.  Earl F. Gohl, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Federal Cochairman of the Appalachian Regional Commission, vice Anne B. Pope, resigned. Edith Ramirez, of California, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 2008, vice Deborah P. Majoras, term expired.  Beatrice Wilkinson Welters, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Trinidad and Tobago. Submitted November 18 Arthur Allen Elkins, Jr., of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Nikki Rush Tinsley, resigned.  Nicole Yvette Lamb-Hale, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice William G. Sutton, resigned.  Robert A. Petzel, of Minnesota, to be Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Michael J. Kussman, resigned. Submitted November 19 Victor H. Ashe, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2010, vice James K. Glassman, resigned.  Walter Isaacson, of Louisiana, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2012, vice Steven J. Simmons, term expired.  Walter Isaacson, of Louisiana, to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, vice James K. Glassman, resigned.  Michael Lynton, of California, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2012, vice Mark McKinnon, term expired.  Susan McCue, of Virginia, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2011, vice Joaquin F. Blaya, term expired.  Michael P. Meehan, of Virginia, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2010, vice D. Jeffrey Hirschberg, term expired.  Dennis Mulhaupt, of California, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2011, vice Blanquita Walsh Cullum, term expired.  Dana M. Perino, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2012, vice Edward E. Kaufman, resigned.  S. Enders Wimbush, of Virginia, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2010, vice Norman J. Pattiz, term expired. Submitted November 20 David Adelman, of Georgia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore.  Sharon Y. Bowen, of New York, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2012, vice Todd S. Farha.  Orlan Johnson, of Maryland, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2011, vice Armando J. Bucelo, Jr., term expired.  Elizabeth L. Littlefield, of the District of Columbia, to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Robert A. Mosbacher, resigned.  Mary Sally Matiella, of Arizona, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Nelson M. Ford.  Paul Luis Oostburg Sanz, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy, vice Frank R. Jimenez.  Harry K. Thomas, Jr., of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines.  Kathleen S. Tighe, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Education, vice John Portman Higgins, resigned.  Solomon B. Watson IV, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Benedict S. Cohen, resigned.  Submitted November 30 Christopher A. Crofts, of Wyoming, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Wyoming for the term of 4 years, vice Kelly Harrison Rankin. Allan J. Katz, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Portuguese Republic. Ian C. Kelly, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador. Barbara L. McQuade, of Michigan, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan for the term of 4 years, vice Stephen Joseph Murphy III, resigned. Patrick K. Nakamura, of Alabama, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2010, vice Robert H. Beatty, Jr., term expired. Patrick K. Nakamura, of Alabama, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2016 (reappointment). Willie Lee Richardson, Jr., of Georgia, to be U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice Theresa A. Merrow, resigned. James L. Santelle, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin for the term of 4 years, vice Steven M. Biskupic, resigned. Thomas Gray Walker, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice George E.B. Holding. Bisa Williams, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger. Raul Yzaguirre, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic. Submitted December 2 Michael A. Khouri, of Kentucky, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2011, vice Steven Robert Blust, resigned. David W. Mills, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Darryl W. Jackson, resigned. Douglas A. Rediker, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Daniel D. Heath, term expired. Submitted December 3  Brooke D. Anderson, of California, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Brooke D. Anderson, of California, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations. Donald L. Cook, of Washington, to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs, National Nuclear Security Administration, vice Robert L. Smolen, resigned.  Rosemary Anne DiCarlo, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Deputy Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations. Rosemary Anne DiCarlo, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. Nancy D. Freudenthal, of Wyoming, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Wyoming, vice Clarence A. Brimmer, Jr., retired. Denzil Price Marshall, Jr., of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, vice William Roy Wilson, Jr., retired. Malcolm Ross O'Neill, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Claude M. Bolton, Jr. Jackalyne Pfannenstiel, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Buddie J. Penn. Benita Y. Pearson, of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice Peter C. Economus, retired. Douglas B. Wilson, of Arizona, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Dorrance Smith. Submitted December 4 William B. Sansom, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2014 (reappointment).  Judith Ann Stewart Stock, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs), vice Goli Ameri, resigned.  David L. Strickland, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, vice Nicole R. Nason, resigned. Submitted December 8 Michael Peter Huerta, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, vice Robert A. Sturgell, resigned. Submitted December 9 Mari Carmen Aponte, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador. Donald E. Booth, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Patricia A. Hoffman, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability), vice Kevin M. Kolevar, resigned. Larry Persily, of Alaska, to be Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects for the term prescribed by law, vice Drue Pearce, resigned. Submitted December 11 Marilyn A. Brown, of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2012, vice Susan Richardson Williams, term expired.  Sharon E. Burke, of Maryland, to be Director of Operational Energy Plans and Programs (new position). William Charles Ostendorff, of Virginia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2011, vice Dale Klein, resigned. Submitted December 17 Gary Blumenthal, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Anne Rader, term expired. Gwendolyn E. Boyd, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 2014, vice Donald J. Sutherland, term expired. Chester Alonzo Finn, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Kathleen Martinez, term expired. Sara A. Gelser, of Oregon, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2011, vice Patricia Pound, term expired. Peggy Goldwater-Clay, of California, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring June 5, 2012 (reappointment). Marie Collins Johns, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Jovita Carranza, resigned. David T. Matsuda, of the District of Columbia, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration, vice Sean T. Connaughton, resigned. Ari Ne'eman, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Robert Davila, term expired. Dongwoo Joseph Pak, of California, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Tony J. Williams, term expired. Carol Jean Reynolds, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Lisa Mattheiss, term expired. Fernando Torres-Gill, of California, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2011, vice Graham Hill, term expired. Jonathan M. Young, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Katherine O. McCary, term expired. Submitted December 21 Sharon L. Browne, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2010, vice Michael McKay, term expired.  Charles Norman Wiltse Keckler, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2010, vice Frank B. Strickland, term expired.  Victor B. Maddox, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2010, vice Lillian R. BeVier, term expired.  Timothy McGee, of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Phillip A. Singerman.  Theodore W. Tozer, of Ohio, to be President, Government National Mortgage Association, vice Joseph J. Murin, resigned.  Kevin Wolf, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Christopher R. Wall, resigned. Submitted December 22 J. Michelle Childs, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice George Ross Anderson, Jr., retired.  Richard Mark Gergel, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Henry M. Herlong, Jr., retired.  William N. Nettles, of South Carolina, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of South Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice William Walter Wilkins, III.  Kelvin Corneilius Washington, of South Carolina, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of South Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice Johnny Mack Brown. Submitted December 23 (released by the Office of the Press Secretary on December 24) Daniel J. Becker, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Robert Nelson Baldwin, term expired.  Andre Birotte, Jr., of California, to be U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California for the term of 4 years, vice Thomas P. O'Brien.  David A. Capp, of Indiana, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana for the term of 4 years, vice Joseph S. Van Bokkelen.  James R. Hannah, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Joseph Francis Baca, term expired.  Beatrice A. Hanson, of New York, to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, vice John W. Gillis.  Richard S. Hartunian, of New York, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Glenn T. Suddaby, resigned.  William Joseph Hochul, Jr., of New York, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Terrance P. Flynn, resigned.  Ronald C. Machen, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia for the term of 4 years, vice Kenneth L. Wainstein, resigned.  Noel Culver March, of Maine, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Maine for the term of 4 years, vice David Donald Viles.  Gayle A. Nachtigal, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Sophia H. Hall, term expired.  John B. Nalbandian, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2010, vice Keith McNamara, term expired.  Anne M. Tompkins, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice Gretchen C. F. Shappert, resigned. George White, of Mississippi, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Mississippi for the term of 4 years, vice Nehemiah Flowers. Sally Quillian Yates, of Georgia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice David E. Nahmias, resigned. Withdrawn December 23 (released by the Office of the Press Secretary on December 24) Suedeen G. Kelly, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2014 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on July 28, 2009. Submitted December 24 Timothy S. Black, of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, vice Sandra S. Beckwith, retired. Gloria M. Navarro, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Brian Edward Sandoval, resigned. Names: Abbey, Robert V.; Abbott, Sherburne B.; Addleton, Jonathan S.; Adelman, David; Adelstein, Jonathan S.; Adler, Robert S.; Adorno, Rolena K.; Alexander, Adele L.; Ali, Russlynn; Allison, Herbert M., Jr.; Anastas, Paul T.; Anderson, Brooke D.; Andrew, Anne S.; Aponte, Mari Del Carmen; Apostolakis, George; Appel, Peter H.; Arnavat, Gustavo; Ashe, Victor H.; Attwood, Cynthia L.; Avalos, Edward M.; Avant, Nicole A.; Babauta, Anthony M.; Babbitt, J. Randolph; Bader, Joseph F.; Baker, Meredith A.; Baker, Roger W.; Barr, Michael S.; Barton, Frederick D.; Barzun, Matthew W.; Bass, John R.; Battle, Michael A., Sr.; Becker, Craig; Becker, Daniel J.; Beers, Rand; Benjamin, Daniel; Benjamin, Regina M.; Bennett, Barbara J.; Berger, Irene C.; Bernanke, Ben S.; Berrien, Jacqueline A.; Berry, M. John; Bersin, Alan D.; Bertram, Christopher P.; Beyer, Donald S., Jr.; Bharara, Preet; Birotte, Andre, Jr.; Black, Timothy S.; Blahous, Charles P., III; Blair, Dennis C.; Blake, Robert O., Jr.; Blanchard, Charles A.; Blank, Rebecca M.; Bleich, Jeffrey L.; Blitz, Sanford; Blumenthal, Gary; Bogden, Daniel G.; Bolden, Charles F., Jr.; Booth, Donald E.; Borras, Rafael; Borzi, Phyllis C.; Bostic, Raphael W.; Bowen, Sharon Y.; Boyd, April S.; Boyd, Gwendolyn E.; Boylan, Lorelei; Brainard, Lael; Breuer, Lanny A.; Brill, Julie S.; Brimmer, Esther; Brinkman, William F.; Brown, Gayleatha B.; Brown, Kenyen R.; Brown, Marilyn A.; Browne, Sharon L.; Burk, Susan F.; Burke, Dennis K.; Burke, Sharon E.; Butenis, Patricia A.; Butler, Louis B., Jr.; Cahill, Patricia D.; Callahan, Richard G.; Campbell, Kurt M.; Campbell, Martha L.; Cannon, Jonathan Z.; Capp, David A.; Carbon, Susan B.; Cargill, David L., Jr.; Carson, Johnnie; Carter, Ashton B.; Castle, Anne; Chen, Edward M.; Childs, J. Michelle; Chilton, Bartholomew; Chin, Denny; Chopra, Aneesh; Chu, Steven; Clark, Julia A.; Clay, Peggy Goldwater; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clyburn, Mignon L.; Coats, Sanford C.; Cochran, Kelvin J.; Coffin, Tristram J.; Cohen, David S.; Cohen, George H.; Collins, Francis S.; Collyns, Charles; Colvin, Carolyn W.; Commons, Gladys; Conaton, Erin C.; Concannon, Kevin W.; Conley, William M.; Connor, Michael L.; Cook, Donald L.; Corr, William V.; Corscia, Anthony R.; Corvington, Patrick A.; Cotter, Michael W.; Cousin, Ertharin; Coyle, Philip E., III; Criscitello, Douglas A.; Crofts, Christopher A.; Crowley, Philip J.; Cunningham, Peter; Daalder, Ivo H.; Dann-Messier, Brenda; Darcy, Jo-Ellen; Daschle, Thomas A.; Davies, Glyn T.; Davis, Andre M.; de Baca, Luis C.; Delahunt, William D.; DeLisi, Scott H.; Dell, Christopher W.; Demag, David E.; Demeo, Marisa J.; DePass, Michelle; Derse, Anne E.; Dettelbach, Steven M.; Diaz, Albert; Diaz, Miguel H.; DiCarlo, Rosemary A.; DiClemente, Albert; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; DuBester, Ernest W.; Duckworth, Ladda Tammy; Duncan, Arne; Durkan, Jenny A.; Eacho, William C., III; Easton, John Q.; EchoHawk, Larry J.; Eikenberry, Karl W.; Elkins, Arthur A., Jr.; Elliott, Daniel R., III; Espinel, Victoria A.; Esquea, Jim R.; Evans, Joan M.; Feinstein, Lee A.; Feldblum, Chai R.; Feltman, Jeffrey D.; Fernandez, Alberto M.; Fernandez, John R.; Fernandez, Jose W.; Ferriero, David S.; Ferro, Anne S.; Finn, Chester A.; Fishman, Paul J.; Flournoy, Michele A.; Foley, James B.; Fong, Ivan K.; Fox, Christine H.; Freudenthal, Nancy D.; Fugate, W. Craig; Fulton, Colin S.C.; Fulton, Laurie S.; Gallagher, Patrick; Garcia, Jose A.; Garcia, Juan M., III; Garver, Lori; Garza, Alexander G.; Gee, Dolly M.; Geithner, Timothy F.; Gelser, Sara A.; Genachowski, Julius; Gensler, Gary; Gergel, Richard M.; Gibbons, John; Giles, Cynthia J.; Gilg, Deborah K. R.; Gilmore, J. Michael; Ginsberg, Daniel; Gips, Donald H.; Gitenstein, Mark H.; Glied, Sherry; Gohl, Earl F., Jr.; Goldberg, Philip S.; Goldstein, Jeffrey A.; Gomez, Gabriella C.; Gompert, David C.; Goolsbee, Austan D.; Goosby, Eric P.; Gordon, Daniel I.; Gordon, Philip H.; Gottemoeller, Rose E.; Gould, W. Scott; Graber, Judith G.; Gray, Gordon; Greenaway, Joseph A., Jr.; Greenlee, Kathy J.; Gregson, Wallace C.; Gresham, Dana G.; Grey, Robert J., Jr.; Griffin, Christine M.; Gross, Kenneth E., Jr.; Groves, Robert M.; Grundmann, Susan T.; Gunn, William A.; Gustafson, Peggy E.; Guthrie, Pricilla E.; Gutman, Howard W.; Guzy, Gary S.; Hale, Robert F.; Hamburg, Margaret A.; Hamilton, David F.; Hamilton, Samuel D.; Hannah, James R.; Hanson, Beatrice A.; Harden, Krysta; Harman, Elizabeth M.; Harris, Scott B.; Harris, Seth D.; Hart, Christopher A.; Hartog-Levin, Fay; Hartunian, Richard S.; Haskew, Barbara S.; Hayes, Brian; Hayes, David J.; Heaphy, Timothy J.; Heddell, Gordon S.; Henriquez, Sandra B.; Hersman, Deborah A. P.; Heun, Robert W.; Heyman, David; Hightower, Dennis F.; Hill, Christopher R.; Hirschhorn, Eric L.; Hochberg, Fred P.; Hochul, William J., Jr.; Hoffman, Patricia A.; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holder, Eric H., Jr.; Holdren, John P.; Honeywell, Charlene E.; Hooks, Craig E.; Hormats, Robert D.; Hudson, James L.; Huebner, David; Huerta, Michael P.; Hunter, Roszell "Rod"; Huntsman, Jon M., Jr.; Hyde, Pamela S.; Irving, Earl M.; Isaacson, Walter; Jackson, Brian A.; Jackson, Ketanji B.; Jackson, Lisa P.; Jacobson, David C.; Jacques, Steven L.; Jarvis, Jonathan B.; Jefferson, Raymond M.; Jenkins, Bonnie D.; Johns, Marie C.; Johnsen, Dawn E.; Johnson, Brendan V.; Johnson, Jeh C.; Johnson, Kristina M.; Johnson, Martha N.; Johnson, Orlan; Jones, B. Todd; Jones, Kerri-Ann; Jones, Walter C.; Kacavas, John P.; Kagan, Elena; Kallon, Abdul K.; Kammerzell, John L.; Kanovsky, Helen R.; Kanter, Martha J.; Kaplan, Samuel L.; Kappos, David J.; Katz, Allan J.; Keckler, Charles N.W.; Keenan, Barbara M.; Kelly, Ian C.; Kelly, Suedeen G.; Kendall, Frank, III; Kennard, William E.; Kennedy, Brian V.; Kerlikowske, R. Gil; Kerr, T. Michael; Kerry, Cameron F.; Kessler, Alan C.; Khouri, Michael A.; Kienitz, Roy W.; Killion, David; King, Betty E.; King, Elizabeth L.; King, Robert R.; Kirk, Ronald; Klinefeldt, Nicholas A.; Kmiec, Douglas W.; Knight, James; Koh, Harold H.; Koh, Howard K.; Koonin, Steven E.; Kornbluh, Karen; Kounalakis, Eleni T.; Kovar, Peter A. ; Kris, David S.; Krislov, Marvin; Krueger, Alan B.; Kumar, Suresh; Kurland, Susan L.; Lago, Marisa; LaHood, Raymond H.; Lamb-Hale, Nicole Y.; Lamont, Thomas, R.; Landesman, Rocco; Lange, Roberto A.; Lanier, Jerry P.; Laub, John H.; Leach, James A.; Lemnios, Zachary J.; Lenhardt, Alfonso E.; Leonard, Joe, Jr.; Levi, John G.; Lew, Jacob J.; Lewis, Wilma A.; Lidinsky, Richard A., Jr.; Lipnic, Victoria A.; Litt, Robert S.; Littlefield, Elizabeth L.; Locke, Gary; Loeffler, Karen L.; Lomellin, Carmen; Lopez, P. David; Lubchenco, Jane; Lubinski, Sharon J.; Lurie, Nicole; Lute, Jane H.; Lynch, Gerard E.; Lynch, James P.; Lynn, William J., III; Lynton, Michael; Mabus, Raymond E., Jr.; MacBride, Neil H.; Machen, Ronald C., Jr.; Maddox, Victor B.; Madison, George W.; Magwood, William D., IV; Main, Joseph A.; Majumdar, Arun; Manning, Timothy W.; Manzano-Diaz, Sara; Marantis, Demetrios J.; March, Noel C.; Markowsky, James J.; Marquez, Mercedes; Marshall, Capricia P.; Marshall, D. Price., Jr.; Martin, Beverly B.; Martin, Carmel; Martin, Paul K.; Martinez, Kathleen; Martinez, Mark A.; Martinez, Vilma S.; Matiella, Mary S.; Matsuda, David T.; Matz, Deborah; May, Genevieve L.; Mayfield, Irvin M., Jr.; Mayorkas, Alejandro N.; McBride, Neil G.; McCarthy, Dennis M.; McCarthy, Regina; McCue, Susan; McDowell, Robert M.; McGee, Timothy; McHale, Judith A.; McHugh, John M.; McLellan, A. Thomas; McNutt, Marcia K.; McQuade, Barbara L.; Meehan, Michael P.; Melendez de Santa Ana, Thelma; Mendez, Victor M.; Merrigan, Kathleen A.; Merten, Kenneth H.; Michaels, David M.; Mikva, Laurie I.; Miller, Anthony W.; Miller, James N., Jr.; Miller, James W.; Miller, Mary J.; Miller, Warren F. "Pete," Jr.; Mills, David W.; Mills, Karen G.; Minow, Martha L.; Mitchell, Cranston J.; Moller, Patricia N.; Moore, Michael J.; Moreno, Ignacia S.; Morin, Jamie M.; Morton, John; Mudd, Philip; Mulhaupt, Dennis; Mundaca, Michael F.; Murphy, Philip D.; Murray, Ellen G.; Nabors, Robert L., II; Nacht, Michael; Nachtigal, Gayle A.; Nakakuni, Florence T.; Nakamura, Patrick K.; Nalbandian, John B.; Napolitano, Janet A.; Nash, Stuart G.; Navarro, Gloria M.; Nay, John R.; Nazario, Carmen R.; Ne'eman, Ari; Nelson, David D.; Neronha, Peter F.; Nettles, William N.; Newell, Richard G.; Nguyen, Jacqueline H.; Norris, John R.; Northup, Anne M.; Oates, Jane; O'Donnell, Steven G.; Ogden, David W.; O'Malia, Scott D.; O'Neill, Malcolm R.; Oreck, Bruce J.; Orszag, Peter R.; Ortiz, Carmen M.; Ostendorff, William C.; Otero, Maria; O'Toole, Tara J.; Owens, Stephen A.; Pak, Dongwoo J.; Pan, Florence Y.; Panetta, Leon E.; Pascual, Carlos; Pearce, Mark G.; Pearson, Benita Y.; Perciasepe, Robert; Perez, Thomas E.; Perino, Dana M.; Perrelli, Thomas J.; Persily, Larry; Peterson, Rosanna M.; Petzel, Robert A.; Pfannenstiel, Jackalyne; Phillips, Mary E. "Beth"; Pizarchik, Joseph G.; Polt, Michael C.; Poneman, Daniel B.; Porcari, John D.; Posner, Michael H.; Posny, Alexa E.; Powell, Nancy J.; Prahar, Peter A.; Preston, Stephen W.; Puchala, Linda A.; Punke, Michael W.; Quarterman, Cynthia L.; Quehl, Scott B.; Ramirez, Edith; Rapp, Stephen J.; Ray, Charles A.; Rediker, Douglas A.; Reed, Pearlie S.; Reischauer, Robert D.; Reiskin, Julie A.; Reiss, Christina; Remy, Donald M.; Reynolds, Carol J.; Rice, Susan E.; Richardson, Willie L., Jr.; Riojas, Jose D.; Rios, Rosa G.; Rivkin, Charles H.; Rivkin, Robert S.; Roberson, Jessie H.; Robinson, Elizabeth M.; Robinson, Laurie O.; Rogers, Thomasina; Rogoff, Peter M.; Romer, Christina D.; Romer, Timothy J.; Romo, Lawrence G.; Rooney, Daniel M.; Roos, John V.; Rose, Charles P.; Rose, Stephanie M.; Rosekind, Mark R.; Ross, Laura G.; Roubideaux, Yvette; Rouse, Cecilia E.; Rowe, Leslie V.; Ruttledge, Lynnae M.; Salazar, Kenneth L.; Samuels, Bryan H.; Sanchez, Francisco J.; Sandalow, David B.; Sansom, William B.; Santelle, James L.; Sanz, Paul L. Oostburg; Sapiro, Miriam E.; Sargeant, Winslow L.; Schapiro, Mary L.; Schmierer, Richard J.; Schroeder, Christopher H.; Schuster, Elaine; Schwartz, Eric P.; Sebelius, Kathleen; Seeborg, Richard; Segal, Evan J.; Sepulveda, John U.; Serino, Richard; Sessions, William K., III; Shah, Rajiv J.; Shannon, Thomas A., Jr.; Shapiro, Andrew J.; Sherman, Harris D.; Shinseki, Eric K.; Siddiqui, Islam A.; Silva, Peter S.; Sims, Ronald C.; Slutz, Pamela J.H.; Smith, Christopher H.; Smith, James B.; Smith, M. Patricia; Smith, Mary L.; Smith, Stephen J.; Solis, Hilda L.; Solomon, Ian H.; Solomont, Alan D.; Sommers, Jill; Sorian, Richard; Sotomayor, Sonia; Southers, Erroll G.; Sparks, Lillian A.; Spearman, Kenneth A.; Spriggs, William E.; Stanislaus, Mathy; Stanley, Clifford L.; Steinberg, James B.; Stevens, David H.; Stewart, Carter M.; Stock, Judith Ann Stewart; Stockton, Paul N.; Stranch, Jane B.; Strickland, David L.; Strickland, Thomas L.; Strickling, Lawrence E.; Stroum, Cynthia; Suh, Rhea S.; Sullivan, John J.; Sunstein, Cass R.; Susman, Louis B.; Sutley, Nancy H.; Szabo, Joseph C.; Tangherlini, Daniel M.; Tarullo, Daniel K.; Tarver, Edward J.; Tauscher, Ellen O.; Taylor, Teddy B.; Tefft, John F.; Tenenbaum, Inez M.; Thomas, Harry K., Jr.; Thompson, Jill L.; Thompson, O. Rogeriee; Thorne, David H.; Thummalapally, Vinai K.; Tighe, Kathleen S.; Tompkins, Anne M.; Tompkins, Hilary C.; Tonsager, Dallas P.; Torres-Gil, Fernando; Tozer, Theodore W.; Trasvina, John D.; Triay, Ines R.; Trottenberg, Polly; Tucker, Benjamin B.; Valencia-Weber, Gloria; Valenzuela, Arturo A.; Vanaskie, Thomas I.; Vance, Joyce W.; Varney, Christine A.; Verkuil, Paul R.; Verma, Richard R.; Vershbow, Alexander; Verveer, Melanne; Verveer, Philip L.; Viken, Jeffrey L.; Villafuerte, Stephanie; Vilsack, Thomas J.; Wagner, Anne M.; Wagner, Benjamin B.; Wagner, Caryn A.; Walker, Thomas G.; Wallace, Kim N.; Warlick, James B., Jr.; Warlick, Mary B.; Washington, Kelvin C.; Watson, Solomon B., IV; Webb, Wellington E.; Weber, Andrew C.; Weich, Ronald H.; Welters, Beatrice W.; Werfel, Daniel I.; West, Tony; Westphal, Joseph W.; White, Barry B.; White, George; Wilkins, William J.; Williams, Aaron S.; Williams, Bisa; Williams, Grayling G.; Wills, Mary Jo; Wilson, Douglas B.; Wimbush, S. Enders; Winokur, Peter S.; Wolf, Kevin; Wolin, Neal S.; Work, Robert O.; Wynn, James A., Jr.; Yates, Sally Q.; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Yonkers, Terry A.; Young, Jonathan M.; Yzaguirre, Raul H., Sr.; Zak, Leocadia I.; Zeitlin, Jide J.; Zinents, Jeffrey D.; Zoi, Catherine R. 