Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2009 Checklist of White House Press Releases December 31, 2009 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. Released January 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a briefing by senior administration officials Released January 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released January 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Interior Secretary Kenneth L. Salazar Statement by the Press Secretary on the election of Metropolitan Kirill of Smolensk and Kaliningrad as Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arkansas  Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kentucky Advance text of the President's remarks on the national economy Released January 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009  Released January 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Missouri Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Washington Fact Sheet: White House Announces Middle Class Task Force Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the fourth quarter 2008 advance GDP estimate Released January 31 Excerpts of the President's remarks at the Alfalfa Club dinner Released February 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's meeting with Democratic congressional leaders Released February 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Announcement: White House Releases State-by-State Employment Data on Impact of American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan Text: Statement by Thomas A. Daschle on his decision to withdraw his name from consideration to be Secretary of Health and Human Services Text: Letter from Nancy Killefer on her decision to withdraw her name from consideration to be Chief Performance Officer Released February 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on executive compensation Statement by the Press Secretary: Treasury Announces New Restrictions on Executive Compensation Announcement: White House Releases Additional State-Specific Impacts of American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan Advance text of the President's remarks on executive compensation Advance text of the President's remarks on signing Children's Health Insurance Program legislation Released February 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kentucky Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Announces White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships Advance text of the President's remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast Advance text of the President's remarks to the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference in Williamsburg, Virginia Released February 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Announces Economic Advisory Board Statement by the Press Secretary on the latest unemployment statistics Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arkansas Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the latest unemployment statistics Advance text of the President's remarks on the establishment of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board Released February 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of remarks by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., at the Munich Conference on Security Policy on February 8  Statement by the Press Secretary: Governor Cris to Join President at Fort Myers Town Hall Meeting Tomorrow Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Directs the National Security and Homeland Security Advisers to Conduct Immediate Cyber Security Review Advance text of the President's remarks in Elkhart, Indiana Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Released February 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advance text of the President's remarks in Fort Myers, Florida Released February 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's remarks at the reopening of Ford's Theatre Released February 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on Senator Judd Gregg's decision to withdraw his name for consideration to be Secretary of Commerce Advanced text of the President's remarks at a Lincoln bicentennial celebration Advanced text of the President's remarks at the Abraham Lincoln Association annual banquet in Springfield, Illinois Released February 13 Transcript of a briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President and First Lady to Host Concert Honoring Stevie Wonder in the East Room on February 25 Advanced text of the President's remarks to the Business Council Released February 14 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Promotes Community Service in NBA All-Star Game Message Released February 15 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Released February 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released February 17 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communication Denis McDonough on the President's visit to Canada Statement by the Press Secretary on restructuring reports submitted by General Motors and Chrysler Statement by the Press Secretary on the upcoming visit by Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan to Washington, DC Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Missouri Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Tennessee Announcement: White House Releases State by State Numbers; American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to Save or Create 3.5 Million Jobs Advance text of the President's remarks on signing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 in Denver, Colorado Released February 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun L.S. Donovan, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chairman Sheila C. Bair on the home mortgage plan Announcement: National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., to travel to Miami, Florida, to meet with King Juan Carlos I of Spain and participate in the Spain-Florida Economic Development Symposium Advance text of the President's remarks on the home mortgage crisis in Phoenix, Arizona Text of a White House executive summary on the homeowner affordability and stability plan Released February 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy Secretary of State James B. Steinberg Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Prime Minister Harper Vow Joint Effort on North American Economic Recovery Announcement: White House Announces 2009 Governors' Dinner Released February 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Extends Gulf Coast Rebuilding Office; Sends Cabinet Members to Gulf Coast and New Orleans Announcement: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers Convene Official Designees to Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry Released February 21 Statement by the Press Secretary on an upcoming visit by Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom  Released February 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces $15 Billion in Medicaid Relief from ARRA Headed to States Announcement: Vice President Biden to Oversee the Administration's Implementation of the Recovery Act's Provisions Released February 24 Excerpts of the President's address to the joint session of the Congress Advance text of the President's address to the joint session of the Congress Text: Guest list for the First Lady's Box at the 2009 address to the joint session of the Congress Released February 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Nominates Former Governor Gary Locke for Secretary of Commerce Released February 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag and Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer Statement by the Press Secretary: Visit by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia to Washington Released February 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs (dated February 26) Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates Fact Sheet: Responsibly Ending the War in Iraq Advance text of the President's remarks on military operations in Iraq at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina Released March 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Will Nominate Governor Kathleen Sebelius Secretary of HHS, Announces Release of $155 Million of ARRA Funds for Health Clinics Across America Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Illinois Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oregon Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Washington Released March 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Vice President Biden Announce Investment in Transportation Infrastructure and Jobs for Americans Fact sheet: Highway Spending from Recovery Act Expected To Create or Save 150,000 Jobs by End of 2010 Transcript of the President's videotaped remarks to the AFL–CIO Executive Council Released March 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, and Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New York Announcement: Reform Agenda at the Department of Agriculture Fact sheet: Reforming Government Contracting Released March 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Visit by President Obama to Europe Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Indiana Advanced text of the President's remarks at the White House Forum on Health Reform Released March 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Upcoming visit by President Luis Inacio "Lula" Da Silva of Brazil to Washington Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Series of Regional White House Forums to be Held Across Country Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 38 Fact sheet: Investing in Public Safety Text: Statement by the Secretary of Labor Regarding the Monthly Employment Situation Report Released March 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's remarks on singing an Executive order removing barriers to responsible scientific research involving human stem cells and a memorandum on scientific integrity Released March 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: Expanding the Promise of Education in America Advanced text of the President's remarks to the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Released March 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces White House Council on Women and Girls Advanced text of the President's remarks on Government spending and earmark reform Released March 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Excerpts of the President's remarks to the Business Roundtable Released March 13 Transcript of press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers at the Brookings Institute Released March 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Secretary Geithner Announce Plans To Unlock Credit for Small Businesses Excerpts of the President's remarks to small-business owners and community lenders Released March 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released March 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton  Statement by the Press Secretary on the 2010 Veterans Affairs budget proposal Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Costa Mesa, California Text: Background facts compiled by the Council of Economic Advisers on California's economic situation Released March 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces $2.4 Billion in Funding to Support Next Generation Electric Vehicles Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Los Angeles, California Advanced text of the President's remarks at the Southern California Edison Electric Vehicle Technical Center in Pomona, California Text: Funding for California in the first 30 day since signing of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Released March 20 Transcript of press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Barack Obama to Deliver Spring 2009 Commencement Addresses  Advanced test of the President's remarks to the National Conference of State Legislatures Released March 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner Fact sheet: Investing in our Clean Energy Future Released March 24 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of NATO Secretary General Jakob Gijsbert "Jaap" de Hoop Scheffer Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Dakota Text: Administration Officials Announce U.S.-Mexico Border Security Policy: A Comprehensive Response & Commitment Text of an op-ed piece by the President concerning global economic cooperation Excerpts of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Released March 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag on congressional budget plans Released March 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Minnesota Advance text of the President's remarks to viewers of Univision's "Premio Lo Nuestro" Latin music awards Released March 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Bruce Riedel, chair, interagency review of policy towards Afghanistan and Pakistan, Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke and Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Michelle A. Flournoy on the new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan Advance text of the President's remarks on United States military and diplomatic strategies for Afghanistan and Pakistan Released March 28 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough, and Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman on the agenda for the G–20 summit, NATO summit, and EU summit Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Launch of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Released March 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1512 Advance text of the President's remarks on the U.S. automobile industry Released March 31 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman on the G–20 summit Text: Tomorrow: White House Director of Auto Communities and Workers to Visit Michigan Released April 1 Transcripts of background readouts by senior administration officials on the President's meeting with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia  Transcripts of background readouts by senior administration officials on the President's meeting with President Hu Jintao of China  Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's meeting with President Hu Jintao of China Released April 2 Transcript of a background readout by senior administration officials on the President's meeting with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's meeting with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Released April 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released April 4 Transcript of press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough Fact sheet: President Obama's Participation in the 60th Anniversary NATO Summit Celebration in Strasbourg-Kehl Released April 5 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official on the President's meeting with Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official of the President's meeting with President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain Advanced text of the President's remarks in Hradcany Square in Prague, Czech Republic Released April 6 Advanced text of the President's remarks to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Released April 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released April 8 Text: Tomorrow: White House Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers to visit Ohio Released April 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces the Creation of a Joint Virtual Lifetime Electronic Record Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Accelerated Purchase of 17,600 New American Vehicles for Government Fleet Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Minnesota Text of background information by the President's Council of Economic Advisers on refinancing activity and mortgage rates Released April 12 Announcement: White House Easter Egg Roll details and talent lineup Released April 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel A. Restrepo Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel A. Restrepo, White House Adviser for the Summit of the Americas Jeffrey Davidow, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough on the President's trip to Mexico and Trinidad and Tobago Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces funding for the 2000th transportation project under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Statement by the Press Secretary on the United Nations condemnation of the North Korean missile launch Fact sheet: Reaching Out to the Cuban People Released April 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Excerpts of the President's remarks on the national economy at Georgetown University Advance text of the President's remarks on the national economy at Georgetown University Released April 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Underscores Commitment to Restoring Fairness to the Tax Code and Providing Tax Relief to Working Americans Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit by King Abdullah II of Jordan to Washington  Fact sheet: Overview of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act Advance text of the President's remarks on tax relief Announcement: President and Mrs. Obama Release 2008 Income Tax Returns Released April 16 Transcript of a briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, White House Adviser for the Summit of the Americas Jeffrey Davidow, National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Daniel A. Restrepo, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough on the President's trip to the Summit of the Americas Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Vice President Biden, Secretary LaHood Call for U.S. High-Speed Passenger Trains Statement by the Press Secretary: U.S.-Mexico Announce Bilateral Framework on Clean Energy and Climate Change Fact sheet: U.S.-Mexico Discuss New Approach to Bilateral Relationship Text of an op-ed piece by the President titled "Choosing a Better Future in the Americas" Released April 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official Statement by the Press Secretary on the conclusion of a review of digital communications and information infrastructure (cyberspace) Released April 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough on the first plenary session of the Summit of the Americas Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough on the second and third plenary sessions of the Summit of the Americas Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the President's meeting with leaders of the Union of South American Nations Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official Statement by the Press Secretary: New $100 Million Microfinance Growth Fund for the Western Hemisphere Released April 19 Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the President's meetings with President Rene Garcia Preval of Haiti and President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile Statement by the Press Secretary: The United States and the 2009 Summit of the Americas: Securing Our Citizens' Future Released April 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Tuesday: President Barack Obama to Sign Landmark Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's first Cabinet meeting Released April 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Alan D. Solomont, Chair, and Stephen Goldsmith, Vice Chair, Corporation for National and Community Service Board of Directors, and White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes on the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Florida Released April 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Indiana Fact sheet: President Obama Highlights Vision for Clean Energy Economy Advance text of the President's remarks on clean energy in Newton, IA Text of an op-ed piece by Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis titled "Building the American Clean Energy Economy" Released April 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Discusses Credit Card Principles Following Meeting with Credit Card Executives Statement by the Press Secretary: Primetime Presidential News Conference Scheduled for Wednesday, April 29th Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 520 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Georgia Released April 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Reforming Student Loans to Make College More Affordable Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Sri Lanka Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 383 Released April 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Assistant to the President for Homeland Secretary and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Acting Director Richard E. Besser, and Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs on the influenza outbreak Released April 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Members of Science and Technology Advisory Council Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arkansas Text of a statement by White House Military Office Director Louis Caldera on the low altitude Air Force One flight over New York City  Text of a statement by Mexican Embassy Spokesman Ricardo Alday regarding the death of Mexico's National Anthropology Director Felipe Solis Fact sheet: A Historic Commitment to Research and Education Advance text of the President's remarks at the National Academy of Sciences Released April 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the 61st anniversary of Israel's independence Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alabama Released April 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Excerpts of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Excerpts from Spanish-language media outlets documenting the Obama administration's outreach to the Hispanic community Released April 30 Transcript of a briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the U.S. auto industry Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Auto Restructuring Initiative Statement by the Press Secretary: Joint Statement: President Obama and Prime Minister Harper on United States-Canada Support for Chrysler LLC Released May 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of teleconference briefing by Small Business Administration Associate Administrator for Capital Access Eric Zarnikow and Economic Adviser to the President Brian Deese on Small Business Association expansion of eligibility for loans for small businesses Announcement: Next Week: Director for Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers to Visit Michigan Released May 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: Leveling the Playing Field: Curbing Tax Havens and Removing Tax Incentives for Shifting Jobs Overseas Released May 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Jacob L. Lew Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Steps to Support Sustainable Energy Options Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Request $50 Million to Identify and Expand Effective, Innovative Non-Profits Fact sheet: American Leadership on Global Health Announcement: 2009–2010 Class of White House Fellows Released May 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., on the President's meeting with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the fiscal year 2010 budget Released May 7 Transcript of press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag on the fiscal year 2010 budget Fact sheet: The President's 2010 Budget Advanced text of the President's remarks on the Federal budget Released May 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Accepts Resignation of Louis Caldera as Director of the White House Military Office Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that on May 7 the President signed H.R. 1626 and S.J. Res. 8 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 39 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alabama Advanced text of the President's remarks on the national economy and job training Released May 9 Announcement: Today: President Meets With Captain Richard Phillips Released May 10 Excerpts of the President's remarks on health care reform Announcement: Today: Conference Call on Major Initiative to Reform Health Care and Reduce Costs Released May 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by a senior administration official on the Council of Economic Advisers' report measuring Recovery Act progress creating and saving jobs Statement by the Press Secretary: CEA Releases New Report on Measuring Recovery Act Progress Creating, Saving Jobs  Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches Office of Public Engagement: A New Name, Mission for White House Liaison Office Statement by the Press Secretary on Gen. David D. McKiernan, commander, NATO International Security Forces, Afghanistan  Fact sheet: Coming Together to Bring Down the Cost of Health Care Text: Letter to the President from health reform stakeholders Released May 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on upcoming visits by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 586 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Mississippi Fact sheet: Innovative Workplace Practices: A Discussion With President Obama Released May 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's commencement address at Arizona State University in Tempe, AZ Released May 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: Protecting American Credit Card Holders Released May 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Appoints Dr. Thomas R. Frieden as CDC Director Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 735 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to West Virginia Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Tennessee Released May 16 Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's travel to Russia, Italy, and Ghana in July` Statement by the Press Secretary on the national elections in India  Released May 17 Advanced text of the President's commencement address at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, IN Released May 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the White House announcement on auto emissions and efficiency standards Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Deliver Commencement Address at US Naval Academy in Annapolis on May 22 Released May 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of press briefing by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on humanitarian aid to Pakistan Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces National Fuel Efficiency Policy Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete of Tanzania Statement by the Press Secretary on Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's announcement of humanitarian aid to Pakistan Fact sheet: Obama Administration National Fuel Efficiency Policy: Good for Consumers, Good for the Economy, and Good for the Country Released May 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Reforms for American Homeowners and Consumers Fact sheet: The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act Fact sheet: The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act Released May 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Open Government Website, Initiative Advanced text of the President's remarks on national security Released May 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Fact sheet: Reforms To Protect American Credit Card Holders Advanced text of the President's commencement address at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD Released May 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on South Korea's endorsement of the Proliferation Security Initiative Released May 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Marks 100th Day of Recovery Act with Release of "100 Days, 100 projects" Report Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Florida Advanced text of the President's remarks at Nellis Air Force Base, NV Released May 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to Landstuhl Regional Medical Facility in Germany Statement by the Press Secretary: Next Week: Cabinet Secretaries, Obama Administration Officials to Travel Across Midwest, Discuss Federal Recovery Efforts for Auto Communities and Workers Released May 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough, and Deputy National Security Adviser and National Security Council Chief of Staff Mark Lippert on the President's trip to Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Germany, and France Statement by the Press Secretary: Designation of Significant Foreign Narcotics Traffickers Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attacks in Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kentucky Fact sheet: Cyberspace Policy Review: Assuring a Trusted and Resilient Information and Communications Infrastructure Text of a statement from the New York State Law Enforcement Council on Judge Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court Released May 31 Fact sheet: Obama Administration Restructuring Initiative for General Motors Released June 1 Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the General Motors restructuring (dated May 31) Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Text of a letter to Senators Reid, McConnell, Leahy, and Sessions from law clerks expressing their support of Judge Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court  Released June 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released June 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, White House Speechwriter Ben Rhodes, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough on the President's remarks in Cairo, Egypt Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alabama Released June 4 Advanced text of the President's remarks in Cairo, Egypt Released June 6 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy Advanced text of the President's remarks on the 65th anniversary of D-Day in Normandy, France Released June 8 Transcript of a Press Briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Chief Economist to the Vice President Jared Bernstein Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Vice President Biden Announce Roadmap to Recovery Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai of Zimbabwe Released June 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls for Restoring Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Requirements Advanced text of the President's remarks on financial stability and pay-as-you-go legislation Released June 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Secretary of Commerce Gary F. Locke Released June 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alaska Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Iowa Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a townhall meeting in Green Bay, Wisconsin Released June 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and U.S. Permanent Representative to the U.N. Susan E. Rice Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Alvaro Uribe Velez of Colombia to the White House Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile to the White House Excerpts of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers at the Council on Foreign Relations Released June 13 Statement by the Press Secretary on the election in Iran Released June 14 Statement by the Press Secretary on a speech delivered by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on the Middle East peace process Released June 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's remarks to the American Medical Association National Conference in Chicago, Illinois Released June 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New White House Office of Olympic, Paralympic, and Youth Sport Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arkansas Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to South Dakota Released June 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Unveils 'United We Serve,' Calls on All Americans to Commit to Meaningful Volunteer Service in Their Daily Lives Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Announce Comprehensive Plan for Regulatory Reform Statement by the Press Secretary on the Bipartisan Policy Center's health reform proposal Fact sheet: Presidential Memorandum on Federal Benefits and Non-Discrimination Advanced text of the President's remarks on financial regulatory reform Released June 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to the White House Released June 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches National Conversation on Importance of Fatherhood and Personal Responsibility Statement by the Press Secretary announced that the President signed H.R. 663, H.R. 918, H.R. 1284, and H.R. 1595 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Missouri Transcript of the President's answer to a question on Iran by Harry Smith of CBS's "Early Show" Excerpts of the President's remarks at the Radio and Television Correspondents Association dinner Released June 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Roberts L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Commemorates Anniversary of Olmstead and Announces New Initiatives to Assist Americans with Disabilities Fact sheet: The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Prevention Control Act of 2009 Released June 23 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende of the Netherlands to Washington, DC Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Oklahoma Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Announcement: Thursday: President and First Lady to Join Hundreds of Congressional Family Members for 'United We Serve' Service Project at Fort McNair Announcement: White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan To Hold White House Roundtable on Title IX Released June 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman, and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kansas Released June 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: On Day Three of Clean Energy Week, Secretary Donovan Addresses Importance of Developing Energy-Efficient, Affordable Housing, Secretary Chu Highlights New Recovery Act Funding for Clean Energy Projects Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Appoints 2009-2010 Class of White House Fellows Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kansas Released June 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released June 28 Announcement: President Obama To Hold Health Care Town Hall in Annandale, VA on Wednesday, July 1, 2009 Released June 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Launches New Energy Efficiency Efforts Released June 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama to Highlight Innovative Programs That are Transforming Communities Across the Nation Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Rural Tour With Cabinet Secretaries and Administration Officials Statement by the Press Secretary announced that the President signed H.R. 813, H.R. 837, H.R. 2344, S. 407, and S. 615 Released July 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, Senior Director for African Affairs Michelle Gavin, and Senior Director for Russian and Eurasian Affairs Michael McFaul on the President's visit to Russia, Italy, and Africa Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs Bill Awarding Congressional Gold Medal to Women Airforce Service Pilots Statement by the Press Secretary: Declassification Policy Forum to Launch This Week Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Niger Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1777 and S. 614 Advance text of the President's opening remarks at a virtual town hall and question-and-answer session on health care reform in Annandale, VA Released July 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Illinois Released July 6 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in western China Fact sheet: Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Field of Public Health and Medical Sciences Fact sheet: U.S.-Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIAs Fact sheet: U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission Fact sheet: United States-Russia Military Transit Agreement Fact sheet: United States-Russia Military to Military Relations Fact Sheet: The Joint Understanding for the START Follow-on Treaty Fact sheet: Moscow Summit, July 6–8 Transcript of the President's interview with Russia's Novaya Gazeta Released July 7 Advance text of the President's remarks at a graduation ceremony at the New Economic School in Moscow, Russia Released July 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman and U.S. Special Envoy for Climate Change Todd Stern Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonoguh, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs William Burns, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and National Security Council Chief of Staff Mark Lippert on the G–8 working dinner Statement by the Press Secretary: Addressing the Nuclear Threat: Fulfilling the Promise of Prague at the L'Aquila Summit Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to the L'Aquila earthquake zone with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy Fact sheet: The G–8 Meeting at L'Aquila Text: Background on Today's Health Care Announcement Released July 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough, and Senior Director for African Affairs Michelle Gavin Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman and U.S. Special Envoy for Climate Change Todd Stern Transcript of a readout by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs on the President's meeting with President Luiz Ignacio Lula da Silva of Brazil Fact sheet: Meeting the International Clean Energy and Climate Change Challenges Joint statement by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and a spokesperson for Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom on President Obama's meeting with the Prime Minister Statement by the Press Secretary: President Honors Outstanding Science, Math, Engineering Teachers, and Mentors Statement by the Press Secretary: President Honors Outstanding Early-Career Scientists Released July 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis McDonough Joint statement by President Barack Obama, President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France on the Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict Statement by the Press Secretary: Food Security: Investing in Agriculture Development To Reduce Hunger and Poverty Statement by the Press Secretary: Examples of What U.S. Embassies in Africa are Doing To Engage African Public on the President's Ghana Speech Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Officials Highlight Energy Efficiency Upgrades Released July 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of the Philippines to the White House on July 30 Advance text of the President's remarks to the Ghanaian Parliament in Accra, Ghana Released July 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Council of Economic Advisers Release Report on Jobs of the Future Statement by the Press Secretary: Republican Recovery Act Claims Disputed Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Next Steps in Development of Urban and Metropolitan Agenda Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Tennessee Advance text of Judge Sonia Sotomayor's opening statement before the Senate Judiciary Committee Released July 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Excerpts of the President's remarks at Macomb Community College in Warren, MI Advanced text of the President's remarks at Macomb Community College in Warren, MI Fact sheet: The American Graduation Initiative: Stronger American Skills Through Community Colleges Released July 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy Judith A. McHale Statement by the Press Secretary: National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers To Deliver Remarks on the Economy Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to the White House on July 22 Advanced text of the President's remarks on health care reform Released July 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Advanced text of the President's remarks at a dinner celebrating the 100th anniversary of the NAACP Released July 17 Excerpts of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers to the Peterson Institute for International Economics Transcript of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers to the Peterson Institute for International Economics Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's travel to Guadalajara, Mexico, August 9–10, to attend the North American Leaders Summit Released July 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released July 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs (dated July 21) Excerpts of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a news conference Advanced text of remarks by White House Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag to the Council of Foreign Relations in New York City Released July 23 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Shaker Heights, OH Released July 24 Transcript of the press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Statement from former President George H.W. Bush on the Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act Statement by the Press Secretary: Cabinet Members Publish Energy Op-Eds in Regional Papers Statement by the Press Secretary: CEA Releases Report on the Economic Effects of Health Care Reform on Small Businesses and Their Employees (embargoed for release until July 25) Released July 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's remarks at the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue Released July 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that on July 27 the President signed H.R. 2632 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 56 Released July 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Raleigh, NC Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Bristol, VA Released July 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Names Medal of Freedom Recipients Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Celebrate Educational Benefits for Post 9/11 Service Members Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Maine Released July 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1513 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Nebraska Released August 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Supporting Our Troops: The Post 9/11 GI Bill Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to the White House Released August 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of former President William J. Clinton to North Korea Released August 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces $2.4 Billion in Grants To Accelerate the Manufacturing and Deployment of the Next Generation of U.S. Batteries and Electric Vehicles Released August 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of an essay by Dr. Jill Biden published in Forbes magazine Advanced text of remarks by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer at the Economic Club of Washington, DC Advanced text of remarks by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, DC Released August 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, National Security Council Senior Director of Western Affairs Daniel Restrepo, and Assistant to the President for Counterterrorism and Homeland Security John O. Brennan Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Officials Travel America, Talk Clean Energy Economy Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to the White House Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 2245, H.R. 3114, and H.R. 3435 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President has signed H.R. 3357 Released August 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the President's meeting with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico Released August 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: North American Leaders Summit: Energy Deliverables Released August 11 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released August 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration's Rural Stops in Western Alaska Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 838 and S. 1107 Released August 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's authorization on the continuance of the Air Bridge Denial (ABD) Program against civil aircraft trafficking in illicit drugs Statement by the Press Secretary on export control regulations Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Iowa Released August 14 Statement by the Press Secretary on the appointment of two senior officials responsible for Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kentucky Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Belgrade, MT Released August 15 Transcript of press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in Grand Junction, CO Released August 17 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's remarks to the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Phoenix, AZ Statement by the Press Secretary on the  release of John Yettaw, who was held by Burmese authorities for entering the home of Aung San Suu Kyi, leader of the National League for Democracy in Burma Released August 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the meeting between President Obama and former President William J. Clinton Released August 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released August 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the release of Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi Released August 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces National HIV/AIDS Community Discussions Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Tennessee Released August 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released August 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology (PCAST) releases report assessing H1N1 preparations Statement by the Press Secretary on the Department of Justice Inquiry Released August 25 Advanced text of the President's remarks on the reappointment of Ben S. Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve in Oak Bluffs, MA Released August 26 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq Chairman Abdul Aziz al-Hakim  Text of a statement by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr. on the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy Released August 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released August 29 Advanced text of the President's eulogy at the funeral service for Senator Edward M. Kennedy in Boston, MA Released August 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on parliamentary elections in Japan Released August 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released September 1 Statement by the Press Secretary: 2009-H1N1 National Preparedness and Response Overview Statement by the Press Secretary on the meeting between National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski of Poland Statement by the Press Secretary on the attack on Assistant Minister of Interior Muhammad Bin Nayif of Saudi Arabia Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New York Released September 4 Statement by the Press Secretary on the disclosure policy for White House visitor logs Statement by the Press Secretary on Israeli settlements Released September 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Advanced text of the President's remarks at the AFL–CIO Labor Day picnic in Cincinnati, OH Advanced text of the President's speech to the Nation's school students/Back to School Event Released September 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released September 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Excerpts of the President's address before a joint session of Congress on health care reform Advanced text of the President's address before a joint session of Congress on health care reform Text: Guest list for the First Lady's Box at the joint session of the Congress address Text: Letter from Senator Edward M. Kennedy to the President dated May 12, 2009 Released September 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Council of Economic Advisers Releases Report to Congress on the Economic Impact of the Recovery Act Statement by the Press Secretary on the meeting between President Obama and Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nanyan of Abu Dhabi Released September 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on First Lady Michelle Obama's travel to Copenhagen, Demark to represent the United States in support of Chicago's bid for the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Hold Presidential Forum on Service Hosted by Former President George H.W. Bush Statement by the Press Secretary on the remedy to address market disruption from imports of certain passenger vehicle and light truck tires Released September 12 Advanced text of the President's remarks in Minneapolis, MN Released September 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the passing of Press Secretary to President Carter Jody Powell Advanced text of the President's remarks in New York City Released September 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Senator Sherrod Brown and Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of Transportation Ray H. LaHood and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. delegation to the Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Award Medal of Honor to Sergeant First Class Jared C. Monti Advanced text of the President's remarks to General Motors employees in Lordstown, OH Advanced text of the President's remarks at the AFL–CIO National Convention in Pittsburgh, PA Released September 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released September 17 Transcript of press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius Statement by the Press Secretary: President Announces Plan to Expand Fight Against Global H1N1 Pandemic Fact sheet: U.S. Missile Defense Fact sheet: Patient Safety and Medical Liability Reform Demonstration Released September 18 Transcript of press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and U.S. Permanent Representative to the U.N. Susan E. Rice Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's upcoming meeting with the Prime Minister of Japan Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain to the White House Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3325 and S.J. Res. 9 Excerpts of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers at the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University Released September 19 Statement by the Press Secretary on a trilateral meeting with President Obama, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority Released September 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Lays Out Strategy for American Innovation Advanced text of the President's remarks at Hudson Valley Community College in Troy, NY Released September 22 Transcript of a press briefing by U.S. Special Envoy for Climate Change Todd Stern, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol Browner Transcript of a press briefing by U.N. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell on the President's meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority Transcript of a press briefing by Senior Director for African Affairs Michelle Gavin on the President's lunch with sub-Saharan African heads of state Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the President's meeting with President Hu Jintao of China Advanced text of the President's remarks at the United Nations Climate Change Summit in New York City Released September 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and White House Speechwriter Ben Rhodes Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Council Coordinator for Arms Control and Nonproliferation Gary Samore, U.S. Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations Alex Wolff, and Senior Director for Russian Affairs Mike McFaul on the President's meeting with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's participation in the Friends of Democratic Pakistan Summit in New York City Advanced text of the President's remarks to the United Nations General Assembly in New York City Released September 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner on the G–20 summit Statement by the Press Secretary: A Green Summit: Background on the Pittsburgh Summit, September 24–25, 2009 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Georgia Fact sheet: United Nations Security Council Summit on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Nuclear Disarmament UNSC Resolution 1887 Fact sheet: Creating a 21st Century International Economic Architecture Advanced text of the President's remarks at a Friends of Democratic Pakistan Summit in New York City Released September 25 Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on an Iranian nuclear facility Joint statement by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and a spokesperson for Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom on President Obama's meeting with the Prime Minister Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Key Accomplishments Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Creating a 21st Century International Economic Architecture Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Framework for Strong, Sustainable, and balanced Growth Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Bold and Coordinated Actions from Crisis to Recovery Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Partnering on Food Security Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Acting on Our Global Energy and Climate Change Challenges Fact sheet: The Pittsburgh Summit: Support for the Most Vulnerable Text: Leaders' Statement of the Pittsburgh Summit Released September 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Barack Obama To Travel to Copenhagen Released September 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Extends Gulf Coast Rebuilding Office, Pushes for Improved Long-Term Recovery Following Catastrophic Disasters Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to American Samoa Released September 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Recovery Act Funding for Groundbreaking Medical Research Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs Presidential Determination Authorizing up to 80,000 Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2010 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kansas Fact sheet: Recovery to Discovery: $5 Billion Recovery Act Investment in Scientific Research and Jobs Released October 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the opening comments at the P–5-plus-1 meeting in Geneva, Switzerland Statement by the Press Secretary: Deputy National Security Adviser, NCS Chief of Staff Mark Lippert Returning to Active Duty in the U.S. Navy Released October 2 Transcripts of press gaggles by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to the White House Released October 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Federal Register 2.0: Transforming the Chronicle of the Executive Branch for the 21st Century Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New Initiatives During National Disability Employment Awareness Month Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Signs an Executive Order Focused on Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance Released October 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released October 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released October 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released October 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama, Cabinet Members To Visit New Orleans Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2131 and H.R. 3593 Fact sheet: Obama Administration Fights for American Families: Protecting Consumers, Investors, and Taxpayers Advanced text of the President's remarks on consumer financial protection Released October 12 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Tribal Nations Conference Released October 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3663 Released October 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls on Congress To Extend Economic Recovery Payment for 2010 Released October 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama and Local Residents Discuss Rebuilding and Recovery in New Orleans Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1707 Fact sheet: Gulf Coast Recovery Advanced text of the President's opening remarks at a town hall meeting in New Orleans, LA Released October 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary on the United States-European Union summit Excerpts of remarks by National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers at the Economist's Buttonwood Gathering in New York City Released October 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy Assistant to the President on Economic Policy Jared Bernstein, and Domestic Policy Council Director Melody C. Barnes Statement by the Press Secretary: State Governments Expected to Credit Recovery Act With Creating, Saving at Least 250,000 Education Jobs Nationwide Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1687, H.R. 2053, H.R. 2121, H.R. 2498, H.R. 2913, and S. 1289 Released October 20 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Sign Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act into Law Statement by the Press Secretary on the October 17 Economic Community of West African States Summit Statement by the Press Secretary on the sentencing of Iranian American scholar Kian Tajbakhsh to a 15-year prison term by Iranian authorities Released October 21 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New Small Business Lending Initiatives Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2997 Advanced text of the President's remarks on small-business initiatives in Landover, MD Released October 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released October 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Global Technology and Innovation Fund Statement by the Press Secretary on the 53rd anniversary of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 Released October 24 Statement by the Press Secretary on the detention of human rights lawyer Haitham Maleh by Syrian authorities Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Puerto Rico Released October 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on health care reform Excerpts of remarks by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer to the Center for American Progress Advanced text of the President's remarks at Naval Air Station Jacksonville, FL Released October 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces $3.4 Billion Investment To Spur Transition to Smart Energy Grid Advanced text of the President's remarks at a campaign rally for Virginia Gubernatorial candidate R. Creigh Deeds in Norfolk, VA Released October 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2892 and H.R. 3183 Released October 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to the White House Advanced text of the President's remarks on small business and health care reform Text: Statement by the Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the GDP Released October 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: New Recipient Reports Confirm Recovery Act Has Created, Saved Over One Million Jobs Nationwide Statement by the Press Secretary on South Korea's contribution to the efforts in Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Seretse Khama Ian Khama of Botswana Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2996 and S. 1929 Released November 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released November 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1818 Advanced text of Office of Management and Budget Director Peter R. Orszag's remarks at New York University Text of a U.S.-EU summit declaration and associated annexes Released November 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Fact sheet: The Race to the Top: Promoting Innovation, Reform, and Excellence in America's Public Schools Advanced text of the President's remarks to students and faculty at James C. Wright Middle School in Madison, WI Released November 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released November 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in October Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 26, H.R. 1209, H.R. 3548, H.R. 3606, S. 832, and S. 1694 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to North Dakota Fact sheet: The Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 Text of an essay by Dr. Jill Biden published in USA Weekend Magazine Released November 7 Announcement: Tuesday: President and First Lady To Attend Fort Hood Memorial Service Released November 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, National Security Council Senior Director for East Asian Affairs Jeffrey Bader, and Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman on the President's visit to Asia Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches Major Veterans Employment Initiative Released November 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the new Lebanese Government Advanced text of the President's remarks at a memorial service at Fort Hood, TX Released November 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on the contributions of Japan's Government to Afghanistan and Pakistan Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 509 Released November 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Released November 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the President's Speech at Suntory Hall, Tokyo, Japan Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official on the President's meeting with Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan Statement by the Press Secretary on the resignation of Greg Craig as White House Counsel and the appointment of Bob Bauer as White House Counsel Fact sheet: U.S.-Japan Cooperation on Clean Energy Technologies Text: Letter of Resignation from White House Counsel Greg Craig Released November 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communication Ben Rhodes on the President's visit to Singapore and the APEC summit Advanced text of the President's remarks in Tokyo, Japan Released November 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, National Security Council Senior Director for Russia Mike McFaul, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes on the APEC summit and the President's meeting with President Dmitry Medvedev of Russia Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Forman Fact sheet: APEC Leaders Meeting—Key Accomplishments Advanced text of the President's remarks at the APEC summit Released November 16 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces December Date for Forum on Jobs and Economic Growth Released November 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, U.S. Ambassador to China Jon H. Huntsman, Jr., National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Jeff Bader, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary on the Jerusalem Planning Committee's approval of settlement expansion in Jerusalem Fact sheet: U.S.-China Cooperation on 21st Century Coal Fact sheet: U.S.-China Energy Efficiency Action Plan Fact sheet: U.S.-China Electric Vehicles Initiative Fact sheet: U.S.-China Renewable Energy Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-China Clean Energy Research Center Fact sheet: U.S.-China Shale Gas Resource Initiative Released November 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's visit to China Released November 19 Statement by the Press Secretary on the election of a new European Council President and High Representative Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representative passage of the Medicare physician payment reform legislation Released November 21 Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate action on health care reform legislation Released November 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches "Educate to Innovate" Campaign for Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Education Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S.-India CEO Forum Released November 24 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Establishes New Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues Fact sheet: U.S.-Indian Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-India Cooperation to Protect the Health of Their People Fact sheet: Stimulating Global Economic Revival, U.S.-India Cooperation in Economics, Trade, and Agriculture Fact sheet: Enhancing U.S.-India Cooperation on Education and Development Fact sheet: Advancing Global Security and Countering Terrorism Fact sheet: U.S.-India Green Partnership to Address Energy Security, Climate Change, and Food Security Released November 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner  Statement by the Press Secretary: President To Attend Copenhagen Climate Talks Released November 26 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Iranian Government's additional charges against Iranian American scholar Kian Tajbakhsh Released November 27 Statement by the Press Secretary: Visit by Australian Prime Minister Rudd Statement by the Press Secretary on the International Atomic Energy Agency's censure of Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on a train derailment in Russia Released November 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on reports about Iran's nuclear program Released November 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: Secretaries Hillary Rodham Clinton and Kathleen Sebelius, Ambassador Eric Goosby and Valerie Jarrett Review Obama Administration Efforts on HIV/AIDS Released December 1 Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by senior administration officials on the President's speech at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY Fact sheet: The Way Forward in Afghanistan and Pakistan Excerpts of the President's remarks at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY Advance text of the President's remarks at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY Released December 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the visit of President Michel Sleiman of Lebanon Released December 3 Statement by the Press Secretary on the disappearance of American citizen Robert Levinson in Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Arkansas Released December 4 Statement by the Press Secretary on the United Nations Climate Change Conference Advanced text of the President's remarks at Lehigh Carbon Community College in Allentown, PA Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer on the employment situation in November Released December 6 Statement by the Press Secretary on Iraq's election law Released December 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the passage of Iraq's revised election law Released December 8 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Proposals To Accelerate Job Growth and Lay the Foundation for Robust Economic Growth Statement by the Press Secretary: Administration Launches Comprehensive Open Government Plan Advance text of the President's remarks on job creation and economic growth Released December 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Recovery Act Awards To Build, Renovate Community Health Centers in More Than 30 States Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Releases National Strategy for Countering Biological Threats Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Virginia Released December 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on the comprehensive energy framework announced by Senators John Kerry, Joe Lieberman, and Lindsay Graham Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Louisiana Advanced text of the President's remarks on accepting the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo, Norway Text: Statement by National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., on International Human Rights Day Released December 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on the European Council declaration on Iran Released December 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Global Partnership Fact sheet: Clean Energy Technology Announcements Released December 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary on the election of President Traian Basescu of Romania Released December 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that on December 15 the President signed H.R. 4218 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4217 and H.R. 3288 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Nebraska Released December 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alaska Advanced text of the President's remarks at a plenary session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark Released December 19 Statement by the Press Secretary: Americans Praise the Copenhagen Accord Released December 21 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Agencies to Save $19 Billion in Contracting Reforms Statement by the Press Secretary on the enactment of the Airline Flight Crew Technical Corrections Act Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that on December 19 the President signed H.R. 3326 Released December 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 62, H.R. 4165, and S. 1472 Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alabama Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New Jersey Released December 23 Transcript of remarks by Deputy National Security Adviser for Counterterrorism and Homeland Security John O. Brennan at the Pam Am Flight 103 memorial service at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, VA (dated December 21) Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Kansas Released December 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary William Burton Released December 27 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the violence in Iran Released December 28 Statement by the Press Secretary on new Israeli construction in East Jerusalem Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3819, H.R. 4284, and H.R. 4314 Released December 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Denis R. McDonough (dated December 28) Transcript of a background briefing by a senior administration official Statement by the Press Secretary on the extension of the Generalized System of Preferences Program and the Andean Trade Preferences Act Released December 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former President Abdurrahman Wahid of Indonesia Released December 31 Transcript of a background press briefing by a senior administration official Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to Alabama Statement by the Press Secretary on disaster assistance to New York Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesman Mike Hammer on the detention of human rights activities in Russia  