Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2009 Message to the Congress on Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Actions and Policies of Certain Members of the Government of Belarus and Other Persons That Undermine Democratic Processes or Institutions in Belarus June 12, 2009 To the Congress of the United States: Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice stating that the national emergency and related measures blocking the property of certain persons undermining democratic processes or institutions in Belarus are to continue in effect beyond June 16, 2009. Despite some positive developments during the past year, including the release of internationally recognized political prisoners, the actions and policies of certain members of the Government of Belarus and other persons that have undermined democratic processes or institutions, committed human rights abuses related to political repression, and engaged in public corruption pose a continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For these reasons, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the national emergency and related measures blocking the property of certain persons undermining democratic processes or institutions in Belarus. BARACK OBAMA The White House, June 12, 2009. Categories: Communications to Congress : Belarus, blocking property of certain persons undermining democratic processes or institutions, U.S. national emergency, message on continuation. Subjects: Belarus : U.S. national emergency, continuation. DCPD Number: DCPD200900462. 