Administration of Barack H. Obama, 2009 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2009 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 20 In the afternoon, in Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in the Inaugural luncheon. Later, they attended the Inaugural parade. In the evening, at the Washington Convention Center, the President and Mrs. Obama attended and made remarks at the Neighborhood Ball. During the ball, he participated in an interview with Robin Roberts of ABC News. They then attended and made remarks at the Obama Home State Ball. Later in the evening, at the National Building Museum, the President and Mrs. Obama attended and made remarks at the Commander-in-Chief Ball. Then, at the Hilton Washington Hotel Center, they attended and made remarks at the Youth Ball. Later, at the Washington Convention Center, they attended and made remarks at the Biden Home State Ball followed by the Mid Atlantic Region Ball. January 21 In the morning, at the Washington Convention Center, the President and Mrs. Obama attended and made remarks at the West/Southwestern Regional Ball followed by the Midwestern Regional Ball. Later, at the DC Armory, they attended and made remarks at the Southern Regional Ball. Then, at Union Station, they attended and made remarks at the Eastern Regional Ball. Later in the morning, the President met with White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel. Then, at the National Cathedral, he and Mrs. Obama attended a national prayer service with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife, Jill, and former President William J. Clinton and Secretary of State-designate Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with King Abdullah II of Jordan, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel, President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and President Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen) of the Palestinian Authority.  In the afternoon, the President had an intelligence briefing and met with his economic advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, General Raymond T. Odierno, USA, commanding general, Multi-National Force—Iraq, and General David H. Petraeus, USA, commander, U.S. Central Command, to discuss the war on terror in Afghanistan and Iraq. In the evening, in the Map Room, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court John G. Roberts, Jr., readministered the oath of office to the President. Later, at the DC Armory, he and Mrs. Obama attended and made remarks at the Obama for America Staff Ball. January 22 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had an economic briefing. He then met with senior White House staff. Later in the morning, the President met with retired military officers. In the afternoon, at the State Department, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and Deputy National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon.  Later in the afternoon, the President toured the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room at the White House. January 23 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a National Security Council meeting. Later, he had an economic briefing. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he met with bipartisan congressional leaders. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York to congratulate her on her recent congressional appointment. January 24 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had an economic briefing. During the day, the President met with his economic advisers. January 26 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the President’s Special Envoy to the Middle East George J. Mitchell. Then, in the Map Room, he participated in an interview with Hisham Melhem of Al Arabiya Television. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil. In the evening, the President participated in a swearing-in ceremony for Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. January 27 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had an economic briefing in which he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and Director of the National Economic Council Lawrence H. Summers.  In the afternoon, at the U.S. Capitol, the President met with the House Republican Conference. He then met with the Senate Republican Conference. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia and President Alvaro Uribe Velez of Colombia. January 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing in which he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, Director of the National Economic Council Lawrence H. Summers, and Chairman of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board Paul A. Volcker. Later, he had a meeting with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business leaders and chief executive officers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at the Pentagon, he, Vice President Joe Biden, and National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He then met with U.S. military personnel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Kgalema Motlanthe of South Africa. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Governor Mickey D. "Mike" Beebe of Arkansas and Governor Steven L. Beshear of Kentucky to discuss the severe winter storm affecting both States. He then hosted a dinner party for Republican congressional leaders. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan. The White House announced that the President will travel to Canada on February 19. The President announced that he has named Daniel J. Meltzer as Principal Deputy White House Counsel and Deputy Assistant to the President. The President announced that he has named Mary DeRosa as Deputy Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs and Legal Advisor to the National Security Council. The President announced that he has named Neal Wolin as Deputy Counsel to the President for Economic Policy and Deputy Assistant to the President. The President announced that he has named Norman L. Eisen as Special Counsel to the President for Ethics and Government Reform. The President announced that he has named Kendall C. Burman as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Susan Davies as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Karen Dunn as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Danielle Gray as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Michael Gottlieb as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Roberto J. Gonzalez as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Virginia Canter as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Caroline Krass as Associate Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs. The President announced that he has named Jonathan Kravis as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Trevor Morrison as Associate Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs. The President announced that he has named Alison J. Nathan as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Kate Shaw as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Susan S. Sher as Associate Counsel to the President and Counsel to the First Lady. The President announced that he has named Christian A. Weideman as Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Ian Bassin as Deputy Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Rashad Hussain as Deputy Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Blake Roberts as Deputy Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Jason G. Green as Deputy Associate Counsel to the President. The President announced that he has named Diana Farrell as Deputy Director of the National Economic Council. The President announced that he has named Jason Furman as Deputy Director of the National Economic Council. The President announced that he has named David P. Agnew as Deputy Director for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. The President announced that he has named Shaun McGrath as Deputy Director for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. The President declared an emergency in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 27 and continuing. January 29 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Bethesda, MD, where they visited the Sidwell Friends School. Later, in the State Dining Room, they participated in a reception to celebrate the signing of S. 181, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. January 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Hu Jintao of China. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with senior noncommissioned officers.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Jeremiah W. "Jay" Nixon of Missouri to discuss the winter storm affecting the State. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm, landslides, mudslides, and flooding from January 6-16. The President declared an emergency in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 26 and continuing. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada, King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations. He also met with Treasury Secretary-designate Timothy F. Geithner. January 31 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the evening, at the Capital Hilton Hotel, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the Alfalfa Club dinner. February 1 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Super Bowl party for Members of Congress. February 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani of Iraq.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden met with congressional leadership to discuss financial legislation. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea.  The President announced his intention to nominate Ron Sims to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. February 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama visited the Capital City Public Charter School, where they met with students and read to one of the classes. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in separate interviews with Charles Gibson of ABC News, Brian Williams of NBC News, Katie Couric of CBS News, Anderson Cooper of CNN, and Chris Wallace of FOX News. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Governor Charles J. Crist, Jr. of Florida, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, and Governor M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut to discuss his economic recovery plan and financial legislation. The President announced his intention to nominate L. Tammy Duckworth to be Assistant Secretary of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs for the Department of Veterans Affairs. February 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, at the Newseum, he attended the Senate Democratic retreat.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Interior Kenneth L. Salazar. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the House Democratic Caucus leadership cocktail reception. February 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs informed the President that Supreme Court Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had surgery for pancreatic cancer. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, the President traveled to Williamsburg, VA, where, at the Kingsmill Resort, he made remarks at the House Democratic Caucus Issues Conference. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and flooding beginning on January 26 and continuing. February 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the East Room, he and Chairman of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board Paul A. Volcker introduced the members of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board. In the afternoon, the President met with family members of victims of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the USS Cole terrorist attack. In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended a performance by the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. The President announced that he has named Jodi Archambault Gillette as Deputy Associate Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. The President announced that he has named Nicholas Rathod as Deputy Associate Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. The President announced that he has named Michael Blake as Deputy Associate Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm beginning on January 26 and continuing. February 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Camp David, MD. February 8 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. February 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. He then met with senior White House staff. Later, he traveled to South Bend, IN. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Elkhart, IN. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia to offer his condolences for the loss of life due to the wildfires in Victoria and offered U.S. assistance to the Australian Government and citizens affected by the fires. February 10 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he traveled to Fort Myers, FL. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with members of the Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. February 11 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy and President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Springfield, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Shimon Peres of Israel. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Governor Brad Henry and U.S. Senators James M. Inhofe and Thomas A. Coburn of Oklahoma to discuss the February 10 tornadoes that struck the State and offered his condolences and support to the victims of the tornadoes. He also met with Congressman John D. Dingell, Jr., to congratulate him and thank him for his service as the longest serving Member of the House of Representatives. February 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, the President traveled to East Peoria, IL, where he visited a Caterpillar, Inc., plant. Later, he traveled to Springfield, IL, arriving in the evening. Later in the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. February 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. He then had a telephone conversation with King Juan Carlos I of Spain to discuss Spain-U.S. relations. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to their home in Chicago, IL. February 14 In the morning, at the Obama home in Chicago, IL, the President had an intelligence briefing. February 15 The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on February 10 and 11. February 16 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. February 17 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Denver, CO, arriving in the afternoon, where he was joined by Vice President Joe Biden. Later in the afternoon, at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science, the President and Vice President Biden toured the museum’s solar panel installation. Later, he traveled to Phoenix, AZ. The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan at the White House on February 24. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter storms from January 26–28. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter storms from January 26–28. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by winter storms and flooding from January 27–31. February 18 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Mesa, AZ. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. February 19 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Ottawa, Canada, where, in the Canada Reception Centre at Ottawa International Airport, he met with Governor General Michaelle Jean of Canada. He then traveled to Parliament Hill, where, in the Rotunda, he was greeted by Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and Parliament officials. Later in the morning, in the Rotunda, the President signed guest books. In the afternoon, in the Prime Minister's Office, the President met with Prime Minister Harper. Then, in the Senate Dining Room, he had a working lunch with Prime Minister Harper. Later, he traveled to By Ward Market.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Ottawa International Airport, where, in the Canada Reception Centre, he met with Liberal Party of Canada leader Michael Ignatieff. Later, he met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced that he has appointed Adolfo Carrion, Jr. as White House Director of Urban Affairs. The President announced that he has appointed Derek Douglas as Special Assistant to the President for Urban Affairs. February 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. The President announced that he has appointed Mary Wakefield as Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration. February 21 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Malia traveled to Kensignton, MD. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom to the White House on March 3. February 22 In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the 2009 National Governors Association dinner followed by entertainment in the East Room. February 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the evening, the President met with actor and human rights activist George Clooney, United Nations Messenger of Peace, to discuss his recent visit to Chad, Africa. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen A. Merrigan to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Z. Cannon to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Seth Harris to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate John Morton to be Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Ashton Carter to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate April S. Boyd to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Tom Strickland to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks at the Department of the Interior. The President announced that he has appointed Earl E. Devaney as Chair of the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board. February 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. February 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Democratic congressional leadership. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and the chairmen and ranking Members of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the House Committee on Financial Services. He then participated in a National Security Council meeting. In the evening, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted the "Stevie Wonder in Performance at the White House: The Library of Congress Gershwin Prize" event, where he presented Stevie Wonder with the Gershwin Award for Lifetime Achievement. February 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with the Congressional Black Caucus. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner followed by a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later in the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President met with the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Michel Sleiman of Lebanon. He also met with Ambassador Stephen W. Bosworth, Special Representative for North Korea Policy. In the evening, the President met with bipartisan congressional leadership to discuss his plan to draw down U.S. military forces in Iraq. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland to the White House on March 17. The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia at the White House on March 24. The President announced his intention to nominate James N. Miller, Jr., to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Lt. Gen. Wallace "Chip" Gregson, Jr., USMC (Ret.), to be Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced that he has appointed Jeffrey S. Crowley as the Director of Office of National AIDS Policy. February 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. He then traveled to Camp Lejeune, NC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to discuss his plan to draw down U.S. military forces in Iraq and to reach an agreement with Prime Minister Maliki to receive the next U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Christopher R. Hill.  Later in the morning, upon arrival at Camp Lejeune, the President had a telephone conversation with former President George W. Bush to brief him on his plan to draw down U.S. military forces in Iraq. In the afternoon, the President met with wounded marines and their families. He then participated in separate interviews with PBS's "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer." Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, at the Verizon Center, the President attended a Washington Wizards-Chicago Bulls basketball game. The President announced his intention to nominate Jon Leibowitz to be Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Roy Kienitz to be Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Charlie Rose to be General Counsel at the Department of Education. February 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. March 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K.Shinseki. The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter storms from January 26–28. The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter storms from December 20–26, 2008. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winter storms from December 12, 2008 to January 5, 2009. March 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with a delegation from the Boy Scouts of America to receive their annual report. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to nominate John Berry to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management. The President announced his intention to nominate Julius Genachowski to be Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. The President announced his intention to nominate W. Craig Fugate to be Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian Kennedy to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Dana Gresham to be Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter Kovar to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Sherburne B. "Shere" Abbott to be Associate Director of Environment at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from December 11–31, 2008. March 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he met with actor and activist Brad Pitt to discuss ongoing rebuilding efforts in New Orleans, LA. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner.  The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will visit the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the Czech Republic from March 31 to April 5. The President announced that he has named Vivek Kundra as Federal Chief Information Officer at the White House. The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from January 26–28. March 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Columbus, OH. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he participated in an interview with Peter Baker, Helene Cooper, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, and Jeff Zeleny of the New York Times. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Bethesda, MD, where they visited the Sidwell Friends School. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will meet with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil at the White House on March 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Esther Brimmer to be Assistant Secretary for International Organizations at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip "Phil" Gordon to be Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Melanne Verveer to be Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues at the Department of State. March 7 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, to discuss the situation in Mexico. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Later, he, Mrs. Obama traveled to Camp David, MD, where they were joined by their daughters Sasha and Malia. March 8 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Mrs. Obama attended an event celebrating Senator Edward M. Kennedy's birthday. The President announced his intention to nominate David S. Cohen to be Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan B. Krueger to be Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Kim N. Wallace to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. March 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing with Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben S. Bernanke, Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers, and Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina Romer. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Intel Science Talent Search finalists. March 10 In the morning, at the Westin Washington, D.C. City Center, the President made remarks to the Council of Chief State School Officers. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with members of the New Democrat Coalition. March 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Democratic members of the Senate Budget Committee. Later, in the State Dining Room, they met with Democratic members of the House Budget Committee. The President announced his intention to nominate R. Gil Kerlikowske to be Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher R. Hill to be Ambassador to Iraq. The President announced his intention to nominate Lt. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry, USA, to be Ambassador to Afghanistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Ivo Daalder to be U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The President announced his intention to nominate Alexander Vershbow to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard R. Verma to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the State Department. March 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Minister of Foreign Affairs Yang Jiechi of China. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced his intention to nominate Demetrios Marantis to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to nominate Kristina M. Johnson to be Under Secretary of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Gina McCarthy to be Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald H. Weich to be Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Legislative Affairs at the Department of Justice. March 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of the Philippines and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia and President Cristina Fernandez De Kirchner of Argentina. The President announced his intention to nominate Tom Perez to be Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda A. Puchala to be a member of the National Mediation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate James W. Miller to be Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agriculture Service at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Dallas P. Tonsager to be Under Secretary for Rural Development at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Ines Triay to be Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management at the Department of Energy. The President announced that he has appointed Ambassador Jeffrey Davidow as White House Adviser for the Summit of the Americas. March 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced that he has appointed Margaret "Peggy" Hamburg as Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. The President announced that he has appointed Joshua M. Sharfstein as Principal Deputy Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. March 15 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic meeting with his advisers. March 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner met with small-business owners and community leaders. In the afternoon, the President met with veterans and veterans' service organizations. March 17 In the morning, in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President met with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad and House Committee on the Budget Chairman John McKee Spratt, Jr. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Then, in the National Security Adviser's Office, he met with First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness of Northern Ireland. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Francis Cardinal George, Archbishop of Chicago and president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.  The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel M. Rooney to be Ambassador to Ireland. The President announced his intention to nominate Judge David Hamilton to the U.S. Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The President announced his intention to nominate Rose Gottemoeller to be Assistant Secretary of State for Verification and Compliance. March 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. He then had a telephone conversation with President-elect Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena of El Salvador to congratulate him on his election victory and discuss El Salvador-U.S. relations. Later, in the State Dining Room, he met with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He then had a telephone conversation with House Committee on Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Costa Mesa, CA. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had The President announced his intention to nominate Susan F. Burk to be Special Representative to the President, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Raphael Bostic to be Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Michelle J. DePass to be Assistant Administrator for International Affairs at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia J. Giles to be Assistant Administrator for Enforcement and Compliance Assurance at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael L. Connor to be Director of the Bureau of Reclamation at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott Blake Harris to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph C. Szabo to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration at the Department of Transportation. March 19 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Pomona, CA, where he toured Southern California Edison's Electric Vehicle Technical Center. He then participated in a radio interview with Ed Schultz of "The Ed Schultz Radio Show." Later in the morning, the President met with students from the Village Academy High School at Indian Hill. In the afternoon, the President returned to Los Angeles, CA. He then traveled to Burbank, CA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to nominate Suedeen G. Kelly to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth King to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate T. Michael Kerr to be Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Gabriella Gomez to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Joe Leonard, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Cameron F. Kerry to be General Counsel at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Rivkin to be General Counsel at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate M. Patricia Smith to be Solicitor of the Department of Labor. The President announced that he has designated Jon Wellinghoff as Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. March 20 Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, in the State Dining Room, he and Mrs. Obama attended the National Newspaper Publishers Association reception. During the day, the President participated in an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" program for later broadcast. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven E. Koonin to be Under Secretary for Science at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate David Sandalow to be Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Johnnie Carson to be Assistant Secretary for African Affairs at the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathy Martinez to be Assistant Secretary for Disability Employment Policy at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan S. Adelstein to be Administrator for the Rural Utilities Service at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy W. Manning to be Deputy Administrator for National Preparedness of the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Priscilla E. Guthrie to be Chief Information Officer at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. March 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Camp David, MD. March 22 In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. March 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. The President announced his intention to nominate David H. Stevens to be Assistant Secretary for Housing and Federal Housing Commissioner at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Harold Hongju Koh to be Legal Adviser of the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate Yvette Roubideaux to be Director of the Indian Health Service at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Neal S. Wolin to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Lael Brainard to be Under Secretary for International Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced that he has designated Emily C. Hewitt as chief judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. March 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Palm Room, he met with Children's Miracle Network champions and their families. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing. They then had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome Secretary General Jakob Gijsbert "Jaap" de Hoop Scheffer of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the White House on March 25. The President announced his intention to nominate Marisa J. Demeo and Florence Y. Pan to be associate judges in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The President announced his intention to nominate Luis C. de Baca to be Ambassador-at-Large to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at the State Department. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 13 and continuing. March 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the U.S. Capitol, the President met with the Senate Democratic Caucus. He then met with Senators Byron L. Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Representative Earl R. Pomeroy III of North Dakota and Senator Amy Klobuchar and Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota to discuss the recent flooding in North Dakota and Minnesota. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA, where he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery to commemorate National Medal of Honor Day.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Howard Koh to be Assistant Secretary for Health at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Phyllis C. Borzi to be Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Helen R. Kanovsky to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Rhea Suh to be Assistant Secretary for Policy Management and Budget at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Hilary Tompkins to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior. March 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with several Members of Congress to brief them on the administration's Afghanistan policy review. He also had separate telephone conversations with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan.  The President announced his intention to nominate Ray Mabus to be Secretary of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Remy to be General Counsel of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Randolph Babbitt to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Jose D. Riojas to be Assistant Secretary for Operations, Security and Preparedness at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate John Trasvina to be Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Lawrence E. Strickling to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Cathy Zoi to be Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy at the Department of Energy. The President declared an emergency in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 16 and continuing. March 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President met with chief executive officers of several banks to discuss the administration's economic recovery plan. In the evening, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. March 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to nominate Helen Elizabeth Garrett to be Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael S. Barr to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate George W. Madison to be General Counsel of the Department of the Treasury. March 29 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. March 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later, at the U.S. Capitol, he met with the House Democratic Caucus. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to discuss the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit and the global financial markets situation. March 31 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to London, United Kingdom, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. He also had an intelligence briefing.  Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Winfield House, the U.S. Ambassador's residence. They then traveled to the American School, where they met with U.S. Embassy staff. Later, they returned to Winfield House. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne Castle to be Assistant Secretary for Water and Science at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Mathy V. Stanislaus to be Assistant Administrator for the Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Jo-Ellen Darcy to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works. The President announced his intention to nominate John U. Sepulveda to be Assistant Secretary for Human Resources at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Roger Baker to be Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate William Gunn to be General Counsel of the Department of Veterans Affairs. April 1 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to 10 Downing Street, the Prime Minister's residence. Later, they returned to Winfield House. In the afternoon, the President met with Conservative Party Leader and Opposition Leader David Cameron. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Buckingham Palace, where they met with Queen Elizabeth II. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the Group of Twenty (G–20) leaders reception. Later, they returned to Winfield House, where he participated in a working dinner with G–20 leaders.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. The President announced his intention to nominate Martha J. Kanter to be Under Secretary of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Krysta Harden to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen A. Owens to be Assistant Administrator for the Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances at the Environmental Protection Agency. April 2 In the morning, the President traveled to the ExCeL centre, where he participated in a breakfast with G–20 leaders. Later, he attended the opening plenary session of the G–20 summit. In the afternoon, the President participated in a lunch with G–20 leaders. Later, he attended the afternoon plenary session of the G–20 summit. He then met with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Later in the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. In the evening, the President returned to Winfield House. The President announced his intention to nominate Gerard Lynch to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The President announced his intention to nominate Andre Davis to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. Groves to be Director of the Bureau of the Census at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Victor M. Mendez to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter H. Appel to be Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate John Q. Easton to be Director of the Institute of Education Sciences at the Department of Education. April 3 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Strasbourg, France. Upon arrival, they traveled to the Palais Rohan.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Rhenus Sport Arena. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Baden-Baden, Germany. Upon arrival, they traveled to the Rathaus, where he met with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Kurhaus, where they attended a North Atlantic Treaty Organization concert. Later, he participated in a working dinner with North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders. They then returned to Strasbourg, France. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter S. Silva to be Assistant Administrator for Water Programs at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Martha Johnson to be Administrator of the General Services Administration. April 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Kehl, Germany. Later, he and North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders traveled to Strasbourg, France, where they were met by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. They then attended a tribute to North Atlantic Treaty Organization military personnel. Later in the morning, the President traveled to the Palais de la Musique et des Congres, where he met with Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen of Denmark and President Abdullah Gul of Turkey to discuss the appointment of the next Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. He then participated in the North Atlantic Council summit meeting. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Prague, Czech Republic, arriving in the evening.  Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Hilton Prague hotel, where they met with U.S. Embassy staff. April 5 In the morning, the President was briefed on the North Korean missile launch. He then had separate telephone conversations with Gen. James E. Cartwright, USMC, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates to discuss the missile launch. He also met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to discuss the missile launch.  Later in the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Prague Castle. Later, they traveled to Hradcany Square. He then traveled to the Prague Congress Center, where he met with President Jose Manuel Durao Barroso of the European Commission. In the afternoon, the President attended a reception with European Union leaders. He then participated in the European Union-U.S. summit working lunch.  In the evening, the President traveled to Ankara, Turkey. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Sheraton Ankara hotel. April 6 In the morning, the President traveled to the Anitkabir, where he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the tomb of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to the parliament building.  In the evening, the President traveled to Istanbul, Turkey. Upon arrival, he traveled to Dolmabahce Palace, where he met with Minister of Foreign Affairs Eduard Nalbandian of Armenia, Chief of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs Micheline Calmy-Rey of Switzerland, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ali Babacan of Turkey to discuss the normalization of relations between Turkey and Armenia. Later, he traveled to the Conrad Istanbul hotel. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships: Anju Bhargava; Charles Blake; Peg Chemberlin; Nathan Diament; Harry Knox; Dalia Mogahed; Anthony R. Picarello, Jr.; Nancy Ratzan; and Sharon Watkins.  April 7 In the morning, the President met Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople Bartholomew. He then met with Chairman of the Religious Council of the Armenian Church in Turkey Archbishop Aram Atesyan, Chief Rabbi of Istanbul Isak Haleva, Grand Mufti of Istanbul Mustafa Cagrici, and Syriac Orthodox Archbishop of Istanbul and Ankara Yusuf Cetin. Later, he traveled to the Hagia Sophia, where he was joined by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. They then toured the museum. Later in the morning, the President and Prime Minister Erdogan toured the Blue Mosque. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Tophane Cultural Center. Later, he traveled to Baghdad, Iraq. He then traveled to Camp Victory, where he met with Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, USA, commanding general, Multi-National Force—Iraq.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy to offer his condolences for the loss of life due to the April 6 earthquake in L'Aquila, Italy, and offered U.S. assistance to the Italian Government and the victims of the earthquake. He also had a telephone conversation with President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan. In the evening, the President met with U.S. military personnel and awarded medals to several soldiers. Later, he met with President Jalal Talabani of Iraq.  Later in the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with head coach Roy Williams of the University of North Carolina men's basketball team to congratulate him on the team's April 6 NCAA championship.  April 8 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with head coach Geno Auriemma of the University of Connecticut women's basketball team to congratulate him on the team's April 7 NCAA championship. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary L. Smith to be Assistant Attorney General of the Tax Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate R. Rand Beers to be Under Secretary for National Protection and Programs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter M. Rogoff to be Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jane Oates to be Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training Administration at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey D. Feltman to be Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. "Chuck" Hurley to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert O. Work to be Under Secretary of the Department of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. Blanchard to be General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force. April 9 In the morning, the President met with leaders of several veterans' service organizations and military service organizations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the East Room, he and Mrs. Obama attended and made remarks at a memorial service for White House staff member Smile "Smiley" Saint-Aubin.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Patrick Manning of Trinidad and Tobago to discuss the upcoming Summit of the Americas. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President hosted a Seder to celebrate the beginning of Passover. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 16 and continuing. April 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana. He also had a telephone conversation with President Alan Garcia Perez of Peru. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry EchoHawk to be Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Sandra Henriquez to be Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  The President announced his intention to nominate A. Thomas McLellan to be Deputy Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate John D. Porcari to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Transportation. April 12 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Andrea Phillips, wife of Captain Richard Phillips of the MV Maersk Alabama who was captured by pirates off the coast of Somalia on April 8, to discuss her husband's rescue by U.S. Navy SEALs. April 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.  April 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Poneman to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Fred P. Hochberg to be President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The President announced his intention to nominate Francisco "Frank" J. Sanchez to be Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Miriam E. Sapiro to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to nominate Judith A. McHale to be Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip J. "P.J." Crowley to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Bonnie D. Jenkins to be Coordinator for Threat Reduction Programs at the Department of State, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomasina V. Rogers to be Chairman of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Lorelei Boylan to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate David F. Heyman to be Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew C. Weber to be Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen W. Preston to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Laurie Mikva to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. April 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in Room 350 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with working families. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with U.S. Trade Representative Ronald Kirk. The White House announced that the President will meet with King Abdullah II of Jordan at the White House on April 21. April 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Mexico City, Mexico, arriving in the afternoon.  While en route aboard Air Force One, he had an intelligence briefing. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to la Residencia Oficial de Los Pinos. Later, he traveled to the Presidente InterContinental Mexico City hotel, where he met with U.S. Embassy staff. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil to discuss the upcoming Summit of the Americas. April 17 In the morning, the President traveled to Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, arriving in the afternoon.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Hyatt Regency Trinidad hotel. In the evening, the President participated in the Summit of the Americas opening ceremony and cultural event. Later, he met with Prime Minister Patrick Manning of Trinidad and Tobago. He then met with leaders of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). Later in the evening, the President traveled to the Hilton Trinidad & Conference Centre. The President announced his intention to nominate Christine M. Griffin to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Concannon to be Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Rajiv Shah to be Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Nacht to be Assistant Secretary for Global Strategic Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Mercedes Marquez to be Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Raymond M. Jefferson to be Assistant Secretary for Veterans Employment and Training at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Litt to be General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The President announced his intention to nominate William F. Brinkman to be Director of the Office of Science at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Herbert M. Allison, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability and Counselor to the Secretary at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Wilkins to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and Assistant General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury. April 18 In the morning, the President traveled to the Hyatt Regency Trinidad hotel, where he attended Plenary Session I of the Summit of the Americas. Later, he participated in a photo opportunity with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. In the afternoon, the President participated in the Summit of the Americas official photograph and working lunch. Later, he attended Plenary Sessions II and III of the summit. In the evening, the President participated in the official Summit of the Americas dinner and cultural performance. Later, he traveled to the Hilton Trinidad & Conference Centre. April 19 In the morning, the President traveled to the Diplomatic Center, where he participated in the Summit of the Americas leaders retreat. In the afternoon, the President returned to the Hilton Trinidad & Conference Centre. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. April 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Langley, VA, where, at Central Intelligence Agency Headquarters, he met with Director Leon E. Panetta, Deputy Director Stephen R. Kappes, and other CIA officials. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with professional golfer Eldrick "Tiger" Woods. The President announced that he has nominated Cass R. Sunstein to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced that he has nominated William K. Sessions III to be Chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. April 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Personal Dining Room, he met with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senator Edward M. Kennedy and former President William J. Clinton to discuss voluntarism. Later, at Kenilworth Park and Aquatic Gardens, he, Mrs. Obama, Vice President Biden and his wife, Jill, and former President Clinton participated in a tree planting event to celebrate Earth Day. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia to discuss Australia's participation in military operations in Afghanistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Eitel to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate William E. Spriggs to be Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Rebecca M. Blank to be Under Secretary for Economic Affairs at the Department of Commerce. The President announced that he has appointed Cindy S. Moelis as Director for the Presidential Commission on White House Fellows. The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds beginning on March 26 and continuing. April 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA. He then traveled to Newton, IA, arriving in the afternoon.  Later in the afternoon, the President toured Trinity Structural Towers, Inc., and met with employees. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from March 8–14. April 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with bipartisan congressional leadership. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Christopher R. Hill. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for Members of Congress and their spouses. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip Mudd to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Kurt Campbell to be Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric P. Schwartz to be Assistant Secretary for Population, Refugees, and Migration at the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate Edward M. Avalos to be Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs at the Department of Agriculture. The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds beginning on March 26 and continuing. April 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. During the day, the President met with Special Envoy to Sudan J. Scott Gration. The President announced his intention to nominate Alejandro N. "Ali" Mayorkas to be Director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert O. Blake to be Assistant Secretary for South Asian Affairs at the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate Jamie M. Morin to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Management at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas R. Lamont to be Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Benjamin to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank and status of Ambassador at Large, at the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate Pearlie S. Reed to be Assistant Secretary for Administration at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Craig Becker and Mark Pearce to be members of the National Labor Relations Board.  April 26 In the morning, the President was briefed on the global influenza outbreak.  April 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a briefing on the global influenza outbreak. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President attended a reception for foreign economic, finance, and environmental ministers. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric Goosby to be Ambassador at Large and Global AIDS Coordinator at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul N. Stockton to be Assistant Secretary for Homeland Defense and Americas' Security Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on April 9. April 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Senator Arlen Specter, who informed him of his decision to switch political parties.  In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President met with the Congressional Progressive Caucus. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for Cabinet Secretaries. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds from March 25 to April 3. April 29 In the morning, the President traveled to Arnold, MO. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony Wilder Miller to be Deputy Secretary of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Mignon L. Clyburn to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Juan M. Garcia III to be Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of the Navy. April 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senators John McCain and Carl Levin and Representatives Isaac N. "Ike" Skelton IV and John M. McHugh to discuss procurement policies reform. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. May 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. He then had a telephone conversation with Supreme Court Associate Justice David H. Souter, who informed him of his decision to retire from the Court. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathy Greenlee to be Assistant Secretary of the Administration on Aging at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Wilma A. Lewis to be Assistant Secretary for Land and Mineral Management at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate John J. Sullivan to be a Commissioner of the Federal Election Commission. May 2 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico to discuss the global influenza outbreak. May 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senators Orrin G. Hatch and Arlen Specter to discuss his plans to consult with Members of Congress regarding the replacement for Supreme Court Associate Justice David H. Souter. The President announced the designation of U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk as the head of the U.S. delegation that will attend the inauguration of President-elect Jacob Zuma of South Africa on May 9 in Pretoria, South Africa.  May 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, in the State Dining Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Democratic Members of Congress serving on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources to discuss energy independence efforts, health care reform, and other legislative priorities. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden traveled to Arlington, VA, where they had lunch at Ray's Hell-Burger. They then returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with President Shimon Peres of Israel.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Senator Jefferson B. "Jeff" Sessions III to discuss the replacement for Supreme Court Associate Justice David H. Souter. The President announced his intention to nominate Inez Moore Tenenbaum to be Chair of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Adler to be Commissioner of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Ellen O'Kane Tauscher to be Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Homer Lee Wilkes to be Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Carmen Nazario to be Assistant Secretary for Children and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew J. Shapiro to be Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard G. Newell to be Administrator of the Energy Information Administration. May 6 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hu Jintao of China. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the morning, the President met with Senator Thomas A. Coburn. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch with Senators Max S. Baucus and Charles E. Grassley to discuss health care reform. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Tara O'Toole to be Under Secretary for Science and Technology at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Laurie O. Robinson to be Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs at the Department of Justice. May 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Rev. Al Sharpton, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, and former Speaker of the House of Representatives Newton L. "Newt" Gingrich to discuss education reform. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Council of Economic Advisers Chair Christina D. Romer. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. May 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Robert P. Casey, Jr. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds from April 10–13. May 9 During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Richard Phillips, captain of the MV Maersk Alabama who was rescued from pirates off the coast of Somalia by U.S. Navy SEALs on April 12, 2009, and his wife, Andrea. May 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates to discuss the shooting deaths of five U.S. soldiers at Camp Victory in Baghdad, Iraq. May 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, commanding general, Multi-National Force—Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Christopher R. Hill. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Otero to be Under Secretary for Global Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip L. Verveer to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Communications and Information Policy in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and U.S. Coordinator for International Communications and Information Policy at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Arturo A. Valenzuela to be Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Ignacia S. Moreno to be Assistant Attorney General of the Environment and Natural Resources Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Craig E. Hooks to be Assistant Administrator for the Office of Administration and Resource Management at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Nicole Lurie to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis M. McCarthy to be Assistant Secretary for Reserve Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Zachary J. Lemnios to be Director of Defense Research and Engineering at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Ginsberg to be Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of the Air Force. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes from March 25–28. May 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry A. Waxman, and House Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller to discuss legislative priorities. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had an intelligence briefing.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing, in which Vice President Biden presented him with the first quarterly report on the progress of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader Addison M. "Mitch" McConnell, and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick J. Leahy and Ranking Member Jefferson B. "Jeff" Sessions III to discuss his upcoming Supreme Court Associate Justice nomination. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, he traveled to Phoenix, AZ, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he participated in an interview with Newsweek magazine, for later publication. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand. Later in the evening, the President traveled to Tempe, AZ. Later, he traveled to Albuquerque, NM. The President announced his intention to nominate Capricia Penavic Marshall to be Chief of Protocol of the Department of State, with the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service. The President announced his intention to nominate Evan Segal to be Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Rocco Landesman to be Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. The President announced that he has designated Gregory B. Jaczko as Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. May 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Rio Rancho, NM. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced his intention to nominate Preet Bharara to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. The President announced his intention to nominate Tristram Coffin to be U.S. attorney for the District of Vermont. The President announced his intention to nominate Jenny Durkan to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Washington. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Fishman to be U.S. attorney for the District of New Jersey. The President announced his intention to nominate John Paul Kacavas to be U.S. attorney for the District of New Hampshire. The President announced his intention to nominate Joyce Vance to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Alabama. The President announced his intention to nominate Rosa "Rosie" Gumatao Rios to be U.S. Treasurer. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel M. Tangherlini to be Assistant Secretary for Management, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Performance Officer of the Department of the Treasury. The President announced that he has appointed Thomas R. Frieden as Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides beginning on May 3 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on April 10. May 16 The White House announced that the President will visit Moscow, Russia, on July 6–8. The White House announced that the President will attend the Group of Eight (G–8) summit in L'Aquila, Italy, from July 8–10. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will visit Accra, Ghana, from July 10–11. The President announced his intention to nominate Jon M. Huntsman, Jr., to be Ambassador to China.  May 17 In the morning, the President traveled to South Bend, IN, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Indianapolis, IN. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. May 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with former Secretaries of State Henry A. Kissinger and George P. Schultz, former Senator Samuel A. Nunn, and former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry to discuss nonproliferation efforts. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.  During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Lt. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, U.S. Forces Afghanistan. He also met with Charles F. Bolden, Jr., to discuss his upcoming nomination of the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He also had separate telephone conversations with several bipartisan Members of Congress to discuss his upcoming Supreme Court Associate Justice nomination. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Perciasepe to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Thelma Melendez de Santa Ana to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Colin Scott Cole Fulton to be General Counsel of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Michael Gilmore to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Bartholomew "Bart" Chilton to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Cranston Mitchell to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Parole Commission. The President announced his intention to designate Isaac Fulwood, Jr., as Chairman of the U.S. Parole Commission. May 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Later, he had a telephone conversation with the crew of the Space Shuttle Atlantis to congratulate them on repairing the Hubble Space Telescope. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for bipartisan Members of the House of Representatives and their guests. May 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, on the South Lawn, he helped assemble care packages for U.S. military personnel serving in Afghanistan and Iraq with members of the Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh Steelers and wounded military personnel from Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the National Naval Medical Center and their families. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete of Tanzania. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher Schroeder to be Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Policy at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul T. Anastas to be Assistant Administrator for the Office of Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Sherry Glied to be Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Winslow Sargeant to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy at the Small Business Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Ambassador Nancy Powell to be Director General of the Foreign Service at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah Matz to be Chair of the National Credit Union Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph M. "Max" Cleland as Secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission. May 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Annapolis, MD. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 23 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to congratulate him on being sworn-in for a second term and to discuss India-U.S. relations. Later, he traveled to Camp David, MD. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles F. Bolden, Jr., to be Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Lori Garver to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. May 24 In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 25 In the morning, in the State Dining Room, the President had breakfast with Gold Star families. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA, where he participated in a Memorial Day wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan to discuss North Korea's nuclear test. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to discuss North Korea's nuclear test and to express his condolences for the death of former President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Supreme Court Associate Justice candidates Elena Kagan, Janet A. Napolitano, Diane P. Wood, and Sonia Sotomayor to inform them of his decision to nominate Judge Sotomayor to the position. May 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Senators Patrick J. Leahy, Addison M. "Mitch" McConnell, Harry Reid, and Jefferson B. "Jeff" Sessions III to discuss his nomination of Judge Sotomayor to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. May 27 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, at Nellis Air Force Base, the President and Senator Harry Reid toured the solar photovoltaic array.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the evening, at the Beverly Hills Hilton hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Battle, Sr., to be U.S. Representative to the African Union with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Vilma S. Martinez to be Ambassador to Argentina. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas A. Shannon to be Ambassador to Brazil. The President announced his intention to nominate Laurie S. Fulton to be Ambassador to Denmark. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles H. Rivkin to be Ambassador to France. The President announced his intention to nominate Louis B. Susman to be Ambassador to the United Kingdom. The President announced his intention to nominate Miguel H. Diaz to be Ambassador to the Holy See. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Connan to be Ambassador to Iceland. The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy J. Roemer to be Ambassador to India. The President announced his intention to nominate John V. Roos to be Ambassador to Japan. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher W. Dell to be Ambassador to Kosovo. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia A. Butenis to be Ambassador to Sri Lanka and Maldives. The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, and straight-line winds beginning on May 17 and continuing. May 28 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will visit wounded U.S. military personnel and their families at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany on June 5. The President announced his intention to nominate Gordon Heddell to be Inspector General of the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Ellen Murray to be Assistant Secretary for Resources and Technology at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Polly Trottenberg to be Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate James J. Markowsky to be Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy at the Department of Energy. May 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Biden. Later, also in the Oval Office, they had an economic briefing. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with National Economic Council staff members. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, flooding, and mudslides from May 3–20. May 30 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. May 31 The President announced the designation of a Presidential delegation to San Salvador, El Salvador, to attend the inauguration of President-elect Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena on June 1: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); Robert Blau; Eliot L. Engel; William D. Delahunt; Gregory W. Meeks; Thomas Shannon; Dan Restrepo; and Alonzo Cantu. June 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, where he visited wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and awarded two Purple Heart medals. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with National Economic Council staff members. June 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer. In the evening, the President traveled to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, arriving the following afternoon. The President announced his intention to nominate John M. McHugh to be Secretary of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. McDowell to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. June 3 In the afternoon, upon arrival at King Khalid International Airport in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the President participated in an arrival ceremony with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Later, the President traveled to the King's farm, where he participated in a welcoming reception with King Abdallah.  In the evening, the President had dinner with King Abdallah. The President announced his intention to nominate James A. "Jim" Smith Leach to be Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, flooding, and straight-line winds from May 6-8. June 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Cairo, Egypt. Upon arrival at Cairo Airport, he traveled to Al Quba Palace, where he participated in a welcoming ceremony with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Later, he and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton toured the Sultan Hassan Mosque. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cairo University. Later, he toured the pyramids and the Sphinx. He then met with U.S. Embassy staff. In the evening, the President traveled to Dresden, Germany. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne S. Ferro to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Ernie DuBester to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Julia A. Clark to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Carlos Pascual to be Ambassador to Mexico. The President announced his intention to nominate David C. Jacobson to be Ambassador to Canada. The President announced his intention to nominate James B. Smith to be Ambassador to Saudi Arabia. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Gips to be Ambassador to South Africa. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia N. Moller to be Ambassador to Guinea. The President announced his intention to nominate Nicole A. Avant to be Ambassador to the Bahamas. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth H. Merten to be Ambassador to Haiti. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne E. Derse to be Ambassador to Lithuania. The President announced that he has nominated B. Todd Jones to be U.S. attorney for the District of Minnesota. June 5 In the morning, the President traveled to Dresden Castle, where he signed the Golden Books for the state of Saxony and the city of Dresden. Later, he and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany toured the Frauenkirche (Church of Our Lady). He then traveled to Zwinger Palace. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Weimar, Germany. Later, he traveled to Ramstein, Germany.   In the evening, the President visited Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, where he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and medical staff members and awarded six Purple Heart medals to marines and soldiers. He then visited the USO Warrior Center, where he met with and made remarks to military personnel and their families. Later, he traveled to Paris, France. June 6 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Caen, France. In the afternoon, at the Prefecture, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a welcoming ceremony with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and his wife Carla Bruni-Sarkozy. Later, he had a working lunch with President Sarkozy. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial, where they toured the visitor's center, visited the overlook of Omaha Beach, and met with D-Day veterans. Later, they returned to Paris, France, arriving in the evening. Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where they were joined by their daughters Sasha and Malia. Then, at Notre Dame Cathedral, they attended a children's choir performance and toured the church. Later, they returned to the U.S. Ambassador's residence. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy to the White House on June 15. June 7 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia visited the Pompidou Centre. Later, he returned to the U.S. Ambassador's residence. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai of Zimbabwe to the Oval Office on June 12. June 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President met with Democratic members of the House Ways and Means Committee. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Westphal to be Under Secretary of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert V. Abbey to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Sam D. Hamilton to be Director of the Office of Fish and Wildlife Service at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah A.P. Hersman to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to renominate Harry Hoglander to be a member of the National Mediation Board. June 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. He then had a telephone conversation with Virginia gubernatorial candidate R. Creigh Deeds to congratulate him on his Democratic primary election victory. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max S. Baucus and Ranking Member Charles E. Grassley and Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Ranking Member Michael B. Enzi and Senior Member Christopher J. Dodd to discuss health care reform. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. He was then briefed on the shooting at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum by Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with King Abdullah II of Jordan, President Rafael Correa Delgado of Ecuador, and President Michel Sleiman of Lebanon. The President announced his intention to nominate Joan M. Evans to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Warren F. "Pete" Miller, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate John R. Norris to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. June 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Green Bay, WI. Then, at Southwest High School, he met with grassroots activists. In the afternoon, at Southwest High School, the President met with local political leaders. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela J.H. Slutz to be Ambassador to Burundi. The President announced his intention to nominate Gordon Gray to be Ambassador to Tunisia. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard J. Schmierer to be Ambassador to Oman. The President announced his intention to nominate Martha L. Campbell to be Ambassador to the Marshall Islands. The President announced his intention to nominate Alfonso E. Lenhardt to be Ambassador to Tanzania. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark H. Gitenstein to be Ambassador to Romania. The President announced his intention to nominate Howard W. Gutman to be Ambassador to Belgium. The President announced his intention to nominate Don Beyer to be Ambassador to Switzerland and Lichtenstein. The President announced his intention to nominate Vinai Thummalapally to be Ambassador to Belize. The President announced his intention to nominate John R. Nay to be Ambassador to Suriname. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding and ice jams beginning on April 28 and continuing. The President made additional disaster assistance available to Iowa by authorizing an increase in the level of Federal funding for debris removal and emergency protective measures undertaken as a result of the severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding that struck the State from May 25 to August 13, 2008. June 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met separately with Senators Sherrod Brown and Dianne Feinstein. The White House announced that the President will meet with President Alvaro Uribe Velez of Colombia at the White House on June 29. The White House announced that the President will meet with President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile at the White House on June 23. June 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Libreville, Gabon, to attend the funeral of President Omar Bongo Ondimba on June 16: Eunice S. Reddick (head of delegation); Phillip Carter III; Michael Strautmanis; Ertharin Cousin; and Howard E. Wolpe, III. The President announced that he has appointed Kimberly K. Teehee as Senior Policy Adviser for Native American Affairs. June 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with President Lee. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, to attend the inauguration of President-elect Tsakhia Elbegdorj of Mongolia on June 18: Mark C. Minton (head of delegation); Nicholas M. Hill; and Stanley Roth. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on April 27 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on March 11 and continuing. June 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun L.S. Donovan. The President announced that he has appointed John R. Phillips as Chair of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced that he has appointed Cheryl L. Dorsey as Vice Chair of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as Commissioners of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships: M. John Berry; Tom Brokaw; Wesley K. Clark; Thomas A. Daschle; Nelson Diaz; Helene D. Gayle; Vartan Gregorian; Cynthia Hale; Deborah Harmon; Christy Haubegger; Peter Henry; John Hockenberry; Claudia Kennedy; Maya Lin; George Munoz; Lloyd W. Newton; Pierre Omidyar; Roger B. Porter; Paul Spyros Sarbanes; Ruth J. Simmons; Maya Soetoro-Ng; George E. Thibault; Bryan S. Traubert; Laurence Tribe; Eleanor Kaye Wilson; and Judy Wise.  June 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden. He then had a telephone conversation with Pittsburgh Penguins head coach Dan Bylsma to congratulate the team on winning the Stanley Cup. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Los Angeles Lakers head coach Phil Jackson to congratulate the team on winning the NBA Finals.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace George J. Mitchell. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The White House announced that the President will welcome Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to the White House on June 26. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Kappos to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The President announced his intention to nominate Warren F. "Pete" Miller, Jr., to be Director of the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management at the Department of Energy. June 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, where he toured the Year Up center. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Map Room, the President participated in an interview with Harry Smith of CBS News. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Greenaway, Jr., to be U.S. circuit judge for the Third Circuit. The President announced his intention to nominate Beverly B. Martin to be U.S. circuit judge for the Eleventh Circuit. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew W. Barzun to be Ambassador to Sweden. The President announced his intention to nominate John R. Bass to be Ambassador to Georgia. The President announced his intention to nominate Ertharin Cousin to be U.S. Representative to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service. The President announced his intention to nominate James B. Foley to be Ambassador to Croatia. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth E. Gross, Jr., to be Ambassador to Tajikistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Samuel L. Kaplan to be Ambassador to Morocco. The President announced his intention to nominate Jerry P. Lanier to be Ambassador to Uganda. The President announced his intention to nominate Teddy B. Taylor to be Ambassador to the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and Papua New Guinea. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by wildfires from April 9–12. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from May 8–16.  June 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. June 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Valdas Adamkus of Lithuania. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende of the Netherlands to the White House on July 14. The President declared an emergency in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by record snow and near-record snow on March 27 and 28. June 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Governors Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, James H. Douglas of Vermont, James E. Doyle , Jr. of Wisconsin, M. Michael Rounds of South Dakota, and Christine Gregoire of Washington to discuss health care reform. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a bill signing ceremony for H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009. The President announced his intention to nominate Rafael Borras to be Under Secretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate James L. Hudson to be Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Brenda Dann-Messier to be Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Kerri-Ann Jones to be Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Bryan H. Samuels to be Commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher A. Hart to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and record or near-record snow from March 26–29. June 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with actress Reese Witherspoon and actors Paul Rudd and Jake Gyllenhaal. The President announced his intention to nominate William C Eacho III to be Ambassador to Austria. The President announced his intention to nominate Judith G. Garber to be Ambassador to Latvia. The President announced his intention to nominate David Killion to be U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate James Knight to be Ambassador to Benin. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Kornbluh to be Permanent Representative to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce J. Oreck to be Ambassador to Finland. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles A. Ray to be Ambassador to Zimbabwe. The President announced his intention to nominate David Thorne to be Ambassador to Italy and San Marino. The President announced his intention to nominate Meredith Attwell Baker to be Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Charlene E. Honeywell to be U.S. district judge for the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Jeffrey L. Viken to be U.S. district judge for the U.S. District Court for South Dakota. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, straight-line winds, and tornadoes from April 25 to May 16. June 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Joe Biden. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with a group from the Helen Keller National Center. He also had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Mohamed Najib bin Abdul Razak of Malaysia and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom and separate telephone conversations with several Members of Congress to discuss energy legislation. In the evening, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a picnic for White House staff. June 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The President announced his intention to nominate Peggy E. Gustafson to be Inspector General of the Small Business Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate George H. Cohen to be Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. June 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia. July 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Annandale, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. He then participated in an interview with regional press from around the country.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a bill signing ceremony for S. 614, a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the Women Airforce Service Pilots ("WASP").  July 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business leaders to discuss job creation and innovation.  During the day, the President participated in an interview with Jennifer Loven of the Associated Press. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Addleton to be Ambassador to Mongolia. The President announced his intention to nominate Gayleatha Beatrice Brown to be Ambassador to Burkina Faso. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl M. Irving to be Ambassador to Swaziland. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas Kmiec to be Ambassador to Malta. The President announced his intention to nominate Fay Hartog-Levin to be Ambassador to the Netherlands. The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes on May 8 and 9. July 3 In the morning, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. July 4 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a barbecue and concert for military personnel and their families to celebrate Independence Day. July 5 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abdullah Gul of Turkey. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Moscow, Russia, arriving the following afternoon. July 6 In the morning, while en route aboard Air Force One, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, upon arrival at Moscow Airport, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters traveled to the Russian Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, where he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony. Later, they traveled to the Kremlin, where he met with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia. They then traveled to the Ritz Carlton hotel. In the evening, the President returned to the Kremlin. He then returned to the Ritz Carlton. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to the U.S. Embassy, where they met with U.S. Embassy staff.  Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Gorkiy, where they had dinner with President Medvedev and his wife, Svetlana Medvedeva. Later they returned to the Ritz Carlton. The President announced his intention to nominate John Fernandez to be Assistant Secretary for Economic Development and Administrator of the Economic Development Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony Marion Babauta to be Assistant Secretary for Insular Areas at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph A. Main to be Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Alexa E. Posny to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher P. Bertram to be Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs and Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Terry A. Yonkers to be Assistant Secretary for Installations and Environment at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Kelvin James Cochran to be U.S. Fire Administrator at the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph G. Pizarchik to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel R. Elliott III to be Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia D. Cahill to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. July 7 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to the Novo Ogaryovo estate, where he had a working breakfast with Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Later, he traveled to the Gostinny Dvor, where he met with former President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union.  In the afternoon, the President returned to the Ritz Carlton hotel. He and Mrs. Obama then traveled to the Kremlin, where they attended a lunch reception hosted by President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia. He then traveled to the Metropol Hotel.  Later, in the afternoon, the President returned to the Ritz Carlton. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael H. Posner to be Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen J. Rapp to be Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Alexander G. Garza to be Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan L. Kurland to be Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Joe Garcia to be Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth A. Spearman to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Farm Credit Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Rolena Klahn Adorno and Marvin Krislov to be members of the National Council on the Humanities. July 8 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Rome, Italy. Upon arrival at Pratica di Mare Air Base, they traveled to Quirinale Palace. In the afternoon, the President traveled to L'Aquila, Italy, where he was greeted by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. Then, at the Guardia di Finanz School, he attended a G–8 summit working lunch. Later, he attended a G–8 summit session on global issues. Later in the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister Berlusconi toured the historic center of L'Aquila and areas affected by the April 6 earthquake.  They then talked with emergency personnel who participated in earthquake recovery efforts. During the day, the President met with Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan. In the evening, at the Guardia di Finanz School, the President attended a G–8 summit working dinner. The President announced his intention to nominate Francis S. Collins to be Director of the National Institutes of Health at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced that he has nominated Irene C. Berger to be U.S. district judge for the Southern District of West Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Roberto A. Lange to be U.S. district judge for the District of South Dakota. July 9 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, at the G–5 Building, he met with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil. Then, at the Guardia di Finanz School, he met with the leaders of the G–8, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, and Egypt.  In the afternoon, the President participated in a photo opportunity with the leaders of the G–8, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, and Egypt. He then had a working lunch with the leaders of the G–8, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, Egypt, United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, World Trade Organization, International Energy Agency, and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.  Later in the afternoon, the President met with representatives of the Junior 8 (J-8) project. He then participated in a photo opportunity with G–8 leaders and J–8 representatives. Later, he attended a G–8 summit discussion on world trade.  Later in the afternoon, the President attended the G–8 summit Major Economies Forum discussion on the environment. He then met separately with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia, and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. In the evening, the President participated in a photo opportunity with G–8 leaders.  He then attended a G–8 summit dinner hosted by President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian Hayes to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip D. Murphy to be Ambassador to Germany. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard A. Serino to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcia K. McNutt to be Director of the U.S. Geological Survey and Science Adviser to the Secretary of the Interior. July 10 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing.  Then, at the Guardia di Finanza School, he attended a working breakfast and met with the leaders of the G–8, Angola, Algeria, Nigeria, Senegal, United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, World Trade Organization, International Energy Agency, and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. In the afternoon, the President participated in a photo opportunity with the leaders of the G–8, Angola, Algeria, Nigeria, Senegal, United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, World Trade Organization, International Energy Agency, and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. He then met with President Jacob Zuma of South Africa. Later, he and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Rome, Italy.  Later in the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama and their daughters traveled to the Vatican, where he met with Secretary of State Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone of the Holy See (Vatican City). He then met with Pope Benedict XVI. Later, he and Mrs. Obama and their daughters had an audience with the Pope. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters traveled to Accra, Ghana. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Senator Edward M. Kennedy. The President announced his intention to nominate Glyn Davies to be U.S. Representative to the Vienna Office of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador and U.S. Representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Jim R. Esquea to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan B. Jarvis to be Director of the National Park Service at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis Burke to be U.S. attorney for the District of Arizona. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven Dettelbach to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. The President announced his intention to nominate Brendan Johnson to be U.S. attorney for the District of South Dakota. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Loeffler to be U.S. attorney for the District of Alaska. The President announced his intention to nominate Florence T. Nakakuni to be U.S. attorney for the District of Hawaii. The President announced his intention to nominate Carter M. Stewart to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Ohio. July 11 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Christianborg Castle, where he participated in an arrival ceremony with President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana. They then had breakfast. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to La General Hospital, where they toured the women's clinic. Later in the morning, the President traveled to the Accra International Conference Center.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Cape Coast, Ghana. Then, at the Chief's residence, he and Mrs. Obama met with Osabarima Kwesi Atta II, Omanhene of the Oguaa Traditional Area. Later, they and their daughters toured the Cape Coast Castle. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters returned to Accra, Ghana. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will receive President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of the Philippines at the White House on July 30. July 12 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Supreme Court Associate Justice-designate Sonia Sotomayor to discuss her upcoming Senate confirmation hearing.   July 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with labor leaders. Later, also in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Jewish community leaders. He then met with Democratic congressional leaders to discuss health care reform legislation.   The President announced his intention to nominate Regina M. Benjamin to be Surgeon General at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 12–14. July 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Mt. Clemens, MI. He then traveled to Warren, MI, where at Macomb Community College, he met with local elected officials. Later, he traveled to St. Louis, MO. In the evening, at Busch Stadium, the President visited the locker rooms of the National League and American League teams of the Major League Baseball All-Star Game. He then met with children from the Make-A-Wish Foundation. Later, he participated in an interview with Bob Costas of NBC Sports. Later in the evening, the President threw out the first pitch and watched the game. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Aaron Williams to be Director of the Peace Corps. July 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. He then met with Senators Robert Corker, Saxby Chambliss, and Lisa Murkowski to discuss health care reform. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Representative-elect Judy Chu of California to congratulate her on her July 14 election victory. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to the White House on July 22. July 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met separately with Senators Earl B. "Ben" Nelson and Olympia J. Snowe to discuss health care reform. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. While en route aboard Air Force One, he participated in a roundtable interview. He then traveled to Holmdel, NJ. Later, he returned to New York City. In the evening, at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraising dinner. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Jacqueline A. Berrien to be Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. July 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing followed by an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. During the day, the President met with Democratic members of the House of Representatives to discuss health care reform.  He also met with Senators Evan Bayh and Kent Conrad to discuss health care reform. The White House announced that the President will travel to Guadalajara, Mexico, August 9 and 10 to attend the North American Leaders Summit with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert D. Hormats to be Under Secretary for Economic, Energy, and Agricultural Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Gary S. Guzy to be Deputy Director of the Office of Environmental Quality (Council on Environmental Quality). The President announced his intention to nominate Lee A. Feinstein to be Ambassador to Poland. July 18 In the morning, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia to congratulate him on his reelection, offer U.S. assistance after the July 17 terrorist attacks in Jakarta, and discuss Indonesia-U.S. relations. July 19 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, at the Children's National Medical Center, the President participated in a roundtable discussion with health care providers to discuss children's access to health care. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Thomas S. Monson, and Elder Dallin H. Oaks, member of the church's Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with and participated in a photo opportunity with the 2009 Raytheon MATHCOUNTS National Champions. Then, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. The President announced his intention to nominate Jill E. Sommers to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. July 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Democratic members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. July 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis F. Hightower to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Goldstein to be Under Secretary for Domestic Finance at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Alberto M. Fernandez to be Ambassador to Equatorial Guinea. The President announced his intention to nominate Jose W. Fernandez to be Assistant Secretary for Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs at the Department of State. July 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he traveled to Cleveland, OH, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President toured the Cleveland Clinic. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Chicago White Sox pitcher Mark A. Buehrle to congratulate him on throwing a perfect game. Later in the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The President announced that he has nominated Ketanji Brown Jackson to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. July 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Joe Biden. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senator Max S. Baucus. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Sgt. James Crowley of the Cambridge, Massachusetts, Police Department to discuss the recent arrest of Harvard University Professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr., and to discuss having Sgt. Crowley and Professor Gates meet with him at the White House. He then had a telephone conversation with Professor Gates to discuss his earlier conversation with Sgt. Crowley and to invite him to the White House.   Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom to discuss U.S. and British military operations in Afghanistan. Then, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the evening, at the Marine Barracks, Washington, DC, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the evening parade. July 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) President Joseph S. Blatter. July 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with the chairs of the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, they greeted the expanded delegations of the U.S.-China Strategic Economic Dialogue. The President announced his intention to nominate David Michaels to be Assistant Secretary for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Benjamin B. Tucker to be Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Jo Wills to be Ambassador to Mauritius and Seychelles. The President announced his intention to nominate David S. Ferriero to be Archivist of the U.S. at the National Archives and Records Administration. July 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Raleigh, NC. In the afternoon, at Broughton High School, the President participated in an interview with Univision. He then traveled to Bristol, VA, where, at Kroger's Supermarket, he participated in a town hall meeting on health care reform. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Biden. In the evening, in the Rose Garden, the President and Vice President Biden met with Sgt. James Crowley of the Cambridge, MA, Police Department and Harvard University Professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne Meagher Northup to be a Commissioner of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Frank Kendall III to be Deputy Under Secretary for Acquisition and Technology at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Werfel to be Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Tsui Grundmann to be Chairman of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne M. Wagner to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board, with the designation of Vice Chair.  The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and landslides from June 18 to July 8. July 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Ivan G. Seidenberg, chairman and chief executive officer, Verizon Communications Inc.; Michael T. Duke, president and chief executive officer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.; Daniel R. DiMicco, director and chairman of the board of directors, Nucor Corporation; and Howard Schultz, founder, chairman of the board of directors, president, and chief executive officer, Starbucks Corporation. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, at Blair House, the President and Vice President Biden met with members of the Cabinet and White House staff. The President announced his intention to nominate Abdul K. Kallon to be U.S. district judge for the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. The President announced his intention to nominate Jacqueline H. Nguyen to be U.S. district judge for the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Daniel G. Bogden to be U.S. attorney for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has nominated Deborah K.R. Gilg to be U.S. attorney for the District of Nebraska. The President announced that he has nominated Timothy J. Heaphy to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Peter F. Neronha to be U.S. attorney for the District of Rhode Island. The President announced that he has nominated David L. Cargill, Jr., to be U.S. marshal for the District of New Hampshire. The President announced that he has nominated David E. Demag to be U.S. marshal for the District of Vermont. The President announced that he has nominated Genevieve L. May to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes from June 5–26. August 1 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson traveled to Camp David, MD. August 2 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. August 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with Amir Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah of Kuwait. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Thomas R. Harkin. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to the White House on August 18. August 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with American Legion National Commander David K. Rehbein and American Legion Washington, DC, office Executive Director Peter S. Gaytan. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with the Senate Democratic Caucus. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki participated in an interview with military reporters. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Biden. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.  In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with the families of American journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee, who had been held by North Korean authorities since March 17, 2009, to discuss the journalists' release from North Korean custody. August 5 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with former President William J. Clinton to thank him for his role in obtaining the release of American journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee from North Korean custody. Later, he traveled to Wakarusa, IN. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. August 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with members of the Senate Finance Committee. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan. He then traveled to McLean, VA.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Supreme Court Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor to congratulate her on her Senate confirmation. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate David C. Gompert to be Principal Deputy National Intelligence Director of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The President announced his intention to nominate William E. Kennard to be U.S. Representative to the European Union, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan D. Solomont to be Ambassador to Spain and Andorra. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation: Robert J. Grey, Jr.; John Gerson Levi; Martha L. Minow; Julie A. Reiskin; and Gloria Valencia-Weber. The President announced that he has designated Ruth Y. Goldway as Chair of the Postal Regulatory Commission. August 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Charles E. Schumer. The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada at the White House on September 16. The President announced that he has nominated Jane Stranch to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Thomas Vanaskie to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Edward Milton Chen to be U.S. district judge for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Dolly Gee to be U.S. district judge for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Richard Seeborg to be U.S. district judge for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Steven O'Donnell to be U.S. marshal for the District of Rhode Island. The President announced that he has nominated Kenyen Brown to be U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Alabama. The President announced that he has nominated Neil MacBride to be U.S. attorney for the Easter District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Benjamin Wagner to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Barry B. White to be Ambassador to Norway. August 9 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Guadalajara, Mexico. Upon arrival at Don Miguel Hidalgo Y Costilla International Airport, he traveled to the Cabanas Cultural Center. In the evening, the President met with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico. Later, he participated in a working dinner with President Calderon and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. They then attended a cultural event. August 10 In the morning, the President returned to the Cabanas Cultural Center, where he met with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. In the afternoon, the President participated in a photo opportunity with President Calderon and Prime Minister Harper. They then participated in a photo opportunity and met with police training forces from Mexico, the U.S., and Canada. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Portsmouth, NH, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. August 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.   August 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President had an interview with Damon Weaver, a student at Kathryn E. Cunningham/Canal Point Elementary School in Canal Point, FL. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe storm on July 10. August 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Belgrade, MT, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Big Sky, MT. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia L. Quarterman to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced that he will designate Mary L. Jordan as Chair of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding on August 4. August 15 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Yellowstone National Park, where they toured the park.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters traveled to Grand Junction, CO. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters traveled to Phoenix, AZ. August 16 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Grand Canyon National Park, where they toured the park. Later, they returned to Phoenix. August 17 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with President Mohamed Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Biden. Later in the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with former President William J. Clinton to thank him for his role in obtaining the release of American journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee, who had been held by North Korean authorities since March 17, and to get a briefing from former President Clinton on his trip to North Korea. Then, in the Oval Office, he had another meeting with former President Clinton. August 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, on the South Lawn, the President met with children from the Victory Junction Gang Camp in Randleman, NC. Then, also on the South Lawn, he participated in an interview with Nicole Manske and Brad Daugherty of ESPN2's "NASCAR Now" program. Later, he participated in a conference call with religious leaders to discuss health care reform. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senator Olympia J. Snowe and Senator Kent Conrad to discuss health care reform. August 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan. August 21 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with former Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle to discuss health care reform. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Seoul, South Korea, to attend the funeral of former President Kim Dae-jung on August 23: Madeleine K. Albright (head of delegation); Kathleen Stephens; Harold H. Koh; Stephen W. Bosworth; Donald P. Gregg; Thomas C. Hubbard; James T. Laney; James A.S. Leach; Evans J.R. Revere; and Wendy R. Sherman. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 15–17. August 23 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Martha's Vineyard, MA.  August 26 In the morning, White House Trip Director Marvin Nicholson informed the President of the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy. He then had a telephone conversation with Senator Kennedy's wife, Victoria, to express his condolences. August 28 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Boston, MA. August 29 In the morning, at the Fairmont Copley Plaza hotel, the President met with Victoria R. Kennedy, wife of Senator Edward M. Kennedy who passed away on August 25. Later, at the Basilica of Our Lady of Perpetual Help, he and Mrs. Obama attended Senator Kennedy's funeral. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Martha's Vineyard, MA. August 30 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Cape Cod Coast Guard Air Station.  He and Mrs. Obama then met with the family of Cpl. Nicholas Xiarhos, USMC, who was killed in Afghanistan on July 23. Later, they and their daughters returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 31 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Gdansk, Poland, to attend the 70th anniversary observance ceremony of the outbreak of World War II on September 1: James L. Jones, Jr. (head of delegation); Victor Ashe; Marcia C. "Marcy" Kaptur; and Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall. September 1 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed on H1N1 influenza preparedness and response efforts. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Joe Biden. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from August 8–10. September 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Democratic Party of Japan President Yukio Hatoyama to congratulate him on his party's August 30 election victories and to discuss Japan-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. September 3 The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara J. Bennett to be Chief Financial Officer of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Punke to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative—Geneva Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced that Thomas P. D'Agostino will continue serving as Under Secretary for Nuclear Security at the Department of Energy and Administrator for Nuclear Security at the National Nuclear Security Administration. September 6 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC.  September 7 In the morning, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH, arriving in the afternoon.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that Ron Bloom will serve as Senior Counselor to the President for Manufacturing Policy. September 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan traveled to Arlington, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, at the Supreme Court, he and Vice President Biden attended an investiture ceremony in honor of Supreme Court Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid and Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with the Professional Golfers Association Champions of America. September 9 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. Later, at Lincoln Center, he attended the memorial service for Walter Cronkite. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Democratic Senators to discuss health care reform. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. Also, in the Oval Office, he also met with Chairman of the National People's Congress of China Wu Bangguo. Also, in the East Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden participated in the official Cabinet photograph. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott O'Malia to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Erroll G. Southers to be Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara Haskew and Neil McBride to be members of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven Jacques to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Gallagher to be Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Harris Sherman to be Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced that he has appointed Linda Breathitt as Federal Representative of the Southern States Energy Board. The President announced that he has appointed L. Preston Bryant, Jr., as Chair of the National Capital Planning Commission. The President announced that he has appointed Jack Leslie as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the U.S. African Development Foundation. The President announced that Sean Stackley will continue to serve as Assistant Secretary for Research, Development and Acquisition at the Department of the Navy. September 11 In the morning, at 8:46 a.m., on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a moment of silence to commemorate the eighth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where they met with families of victims of the attacks. They then returned to Washington, DC. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama toured a Habitat for Humanity housing project and helped paint one of the homes. During the day, he participated in an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" program for later broadcast. He also had a telephone conversation with International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge. Also, in the Yellow Oval Room, he and Mrs. Obama met with Crown Prince of the Netherlands Willem-Alexander and his wife, Princess Maxima. September 12 In the morning, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN, arriving in the afternoon.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric L. Hirschhorn to be Under Secretary for Export Administration and head of the Bureau of Industry and Security at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Gladys J. Commons to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Management and Comptroller for the Department of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Leslie V. Rowe to be Ambassador to Mozambique. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia Stroum to be Ambassador to Luxembourg. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey L. Bleich to be Ambassador to Australia. The President announced his intention to nominate Irvin M. Mayfield, Jr., to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced that he has designated Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., as Chair of the Federal Maritime Commission. September 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, at Il Mulino restaurant, the President had lunch with former President William J. Clinton. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, in the Library, the President participated in an interview with Julianna Goldman of Bloomberg News. The President announced his intention to nominate Chai R. Feldblum to be a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Carmen L. Lomellin to be U.S. Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Frederick Barton to be U.S. Representative on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Jide Zeitlin to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Collyns to be Assistant Secretary for International Finance at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced that he has nominated Barbara Milano Keenan to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The President announced that he has appointed Mary Jacksteit as Chair of the Federal Service Impasses Panel. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel: Martin H. Malin; Barbara B. Franklin; Marvin E. Johnson; Thomas E. Angelo; Edward F. Hartfield; and Don Wasserman. September 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Warren, OH. Later, he traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senators John D. "Jay" Rockefeller IV, Robert Bennett, and Ronald L. Wyden to discuss health care reform. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Jan Fischer of the Czech Republic to discuss missile defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Robinson to be Chief Financial Officer of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael F. Mundaca to be Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced that he has appointed Margo Lion and George Stevens, Jr., as Cochairmen of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. The President announced that he has appointed Mary Schmidt Campbell as Vice Chairman of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. September 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to College Park, MD. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the White House Movie Theater, he hosted a screening for a portion of the documentary "The National Parks: America's Best Idea." September 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with recipients of the Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award. Later, he participated in separate interviews with ABC News, CBS News, NBC News, CNN, and Univision for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan in New York, NY, on September 23. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain to the White House on October 13. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel W. Yohannes to be Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Arun Majumdar to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Gustavo Aranavat to be U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. The President announced that he has nominated Michael J. Moore to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia. The President announced that he has nominated Carmen M. Ortiz to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated Edward J. Tarver to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. September 19 The White House announced that the President will host a trilateral meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen) of the Palestinian Authority on September 22 in New York City. September 21 In the morning, the President and Jill Biden traveled to Troy, NY, where they toured Hudson Valley Community College.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. Upon arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport, he traveled to the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. Later, he traveled to CBS Studios, where he participated in the taping of an interview with David Letterman for the "Late Show with David Letterman."  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to the Waldorf Astoria. September 22 In the morning, the President traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, he returned to the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. He then met separately with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas (Abu Mazen) of the Palestinian Authority. In the afternoon, the President had lunch with sub-Saharan African heads of state. Later, he traveled to the Sheraton Hotel. He then returned to the Waldorf Astoria. In the evening, the President returned to United Nations Headquarters, where he attended United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's climate change summit dinner. Later, he returned to the Waldorf Astoria. The President announced his intention to nominate Elaine Schuster, William D. Delahunt, and Christopher H. Smith to be U.S. Representatives to the 64th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura Gore Ross and Wellington E. Webb to be Alternate U.S. Representatives to the 64th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Burce Warlick to be Ambassador to Serbia. The President announced his intention to nominate Islam A. Siddiqui to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator of the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan D. Bersin to be Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the Department of Homeland Security. September 23 In the morning, the President traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, he returned to the Waldorf Astoria. In the afternoon, the President returned to United Nations Headquarters, where he attended a meeting with leaders of countries that are contributing to United Nations peacekeeping forces. He then participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at a memorial for United Nations staff members killed in Baghdad, Iraq, in 2003. Later, he returned to the Waldorf Astoria, where he was joined by Mrs. Obama. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where they hosted a reception for heads of state. Later, they returned to the Waldorf Astoria. The White House announced that the President, President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan, and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom will chair the Friends of Democratic Pakistan Summit in New York on September 24. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the Commission To Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the American Latino: Emilio Estefan, Jr.; Andres W. Lopez; Cindy Pena; Abigail M. Pollak; and Cid Wilson. September 24 In the morning, the President traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, he returned to the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. In the afternoon, the President, President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan, and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom chaired the Friends of Democratic Pakistan Summit. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Pittsburgh, PA. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens, where they greeted G–20 leaders and their spouses. He then participated in the G–20 leaders working dinner. Later, they traveled to the Omni William Penn Hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert R. King to be Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights Issues at the Department of State with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn W. Colvin to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security at the Social Security Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Marisa Lago to be Assistant Secretary for International Markets and Development at the Department of the Treasury. The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding beginning on September 18 and continuing. September 25 In the morning, the President traveled to the Pittsburgh Convention Center, where he met with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. He then participated in G–20 summit meetings.  In the afternoon, the President participated in the G–20 summit official photograph. He then attended the G–20 leaders' lunch. Later, he participated in G–20 summit meetings. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to the Omni William Penn Hotel, where he met with U.S. Ambassador to Ireland Daniel M. Rooney. Later, he returned to the Pittsburgh Convention Center. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael C. Polt to be Ambassador to Estonia. The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria A. Espinel to be U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate Adele Logan Alexander to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced that he has nominated Richard Callahan to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Michael W. Cotter to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Montana. The President announced that he has nominated Nicholas Klinefeldt to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie Rose to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa. September 26 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III to express his gratitude for the Bureau's counterterrorism efforts. Later, he called in to a New York Police Department counterterrorism briefing that was being given to Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan to thank the police officers for their work during the United Nations General Assembly and for their continued counterterrorism efforts.  September 27 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to congratulate her on her reelection and discuss German-U.S. relations. September 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in an interview with Jodi Kantor and Rebecca Corbett of New York Times Magazine. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with White House Counsel Gregory B. Craig to discuss the closing of the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities. The White House announced that the President will travel to Copenhagen, Denmark, on October 1 to support Chicago's bid for the 2016 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games at the 121st International Olympic Committee Session. September 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President declared a major disaster in the territory of American Samoa and ordered Federal aid to supplement territory and local recovery efforts in the area struck by an earthquake, tsunami, and flooding beginning on September 29 and continuing. September 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Bethesda, MD. Then, he and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius toured an oncology laboratory at the National Institutes of Health. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a bill signing ceremony for H.R. 1243, to provide for the award of a gold medal on behalf of Congress to Arnold Palmer. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. Then, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Sara Manzano-Diaz to be Director of the Women's Bureau at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate John F. Tefft to be Ambassador to Ukraine. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Martin to be Inspector General of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark R. Rosekind to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Christine H. Fox to be Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Roszell "Rod" Hunter to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. The President announced that he has nominated Sanford Coats to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma. The President announced that he has nominated Beth Phillips to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie Villafuerte to be U.S. attorney for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has nominated John Kammerzell to be U.S. marshal for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has nominated Mark Martinez to be U.S. marshal for the District of Nebraska. The President announced that he has nominated Stephen J. Smith to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Georgia. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from July 8–14. October 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the evening, the President traveled to Copenhagen, Denmark, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan B. Carbon to be Director of the Office on Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate James B. Warlick, Jr., to be Ambassador to Bulgaria. The President announced that he has nominated Louis Butler to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin.  October 2 In the morning, aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia to express his condolences for the loss of life during the September 30 earthquake and offer U.S. disaster relief assistance. Then, upon arrival at Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, he traveled to the Bella Center, where he was joined by Mrs. Obama. Later, they attended an informal reception with International Olympic Committee members.  Later in the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Christiansborg Palace, where they were greeted by Queen Margrethe II and Prince Consort Henrik of Denmark. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, where they were joined by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, and his wife, Annie. Then, aboard Air Force One, he met with Gen. McChrystal to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan.  Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will host Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India at the White House on November 24 for an official state visit. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick A. Corvington to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel I. Gordon to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela S. Hyde to be Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate John H. Laub to be Director of the National Institute of Justice at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Ian H. Solomon to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Sorian to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services. October 4 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister George A. Papandreou of Greece to congratulate him on his election victory and his party's success in the parliamentary elections and discuss Greek-U.S. relations. October 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jalal Talabani of Iraq. He also had a telephone conversation with President Serzh Sargsian of Armenia to discuss Armenia-Turkey relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary J. Miller to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Bert DiClemente and Anthony R. Coscia to be directors of the Amtrak Board of Directors. October 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to the National Counterterrorism Center in McLean, VA, where he met with intelligence and counterterrorism officials. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the State Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden met with congressional leaders to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. During the day, the President dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., and President Jalal Talabani of Iraq.  The President announced that he has nominated Denny Chin to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated O. Rogeriee Thompson to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. October 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. During the day, The President announced his intention to nominate David Huebner to be Ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa. The President announced his intention to nominate David D. Nelson to be Ambassador to Uruguay. October 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with business leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, at the White House basketball court, he dropped by the National Naval Medical Center's Marine Wounded Warriors basketball game. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, at the White House basketball court, he played basketball with several Cabinet Secretaries and Members of Congress. October 9 In the morning, Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs informed the President that he had won the Nobel Peace Prize. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator James H. Webb. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with people who have been affected by outdated financial sector regulations. Then, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Later in the afternoon, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a barbecue for U.S. Secret Service personnel and their families. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of Norway, who congratulated him on winning the Nobel Peace Prize. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to the Holy See to attend the canonization mass of Father Damien De Veuster on October 11: Miguel Humberto Diaz (head of delegation); Daniel K. Akaka; Donald M. Payne; Stephen Prokop; Bishop Larry Silva; and Sister Carol Ann Keehan. The President announced his intention to nominate Christina Reiss to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Vermont. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth M. Harman to be Assistant Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Grant Programs) at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate George Apostolakis and William D. Magwood  IV to be commissioners of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter A. Prahar to be Ambassador to Micronesia. The President announced his intention to nominate Eleni Tsakopoulos-Kounalakis to be Ambassador to Hungary. October 10 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. October 11 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry. October 12 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico, President Oscar Arias Sanchez of Costa Rica, and President Alvaro Uribe Velez of Colombia. October 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Vice President Joe Biden. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President had a working lunch with Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Evan Bayh. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. The President announced that he has nominated Rosanna M. Peterson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Washington. The President announced that he has nominated Sharon Lubinski to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Minnesota.  October 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fairfax County, VA, where he and Secretary of Transportation Ray H. LaHood toured the Fairfax County Parkway Extension project. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Blahous to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Social Security Trust Funds. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph F. Bader and Jessie H. Roberson to be members of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter S. Winokur to be Chair of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Reischauer to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Social Security Trust Funds. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan Kessler to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health: Henry Anderson; R. William Field; Richard Lemen; and David B. Richardson. October 15 In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Martin Luther King, Jr. Charter School, where he met with students. He then traveled to the University of New Orleans. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA.  Later in the afternoon, upon arrival in San Francisco, the President traveled to the InterContinental San Francisco Hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the Westin St. Francis Hotel. Later, he returned to the InterContinental San Francisco Hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Clifford L. Stanley to be Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott Quehl to be Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne Slaughter Andrew to be Ambassador to Costa Rica. The President announced his intention to nominate Lynnae M. Ruttledge to be Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Jill Long Thompson to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board of Directors. October 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Houston, TX, arriving in the afternoon. Later, he traveled to College Station, TX. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.  The President announced that he has named George D. Mulligan, Jr., as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Military Office. October 17 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Abdullah Gul of Turkey. October 18 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Belgium to attend the thanksgiving mass for Saint Damien de Veuster on October 18: Howard W. Gutman (head of delegation); Neil Abercrombie; Mazie K. Hirono; Joshua DuBois; and Larry J. Snyder. October 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with the National Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge winners. Later, he traveled to Silver Spring, MD. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Kent Conrad. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Jakarta, Indonesia, to attend the inauguration of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on October 20: Lisa P. Jackson (head of delegation); Cameron R. Hume; and David N. Merrill. October 20 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, Afghan Presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah, and U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to New York City, where he toured the Joint Terrorism Task Force Headquarters. Then, at the Mandarin Oriental hotel, he attended a fundraiser for Democratic congressional candidate Bill Owens. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. He then had a telephone conversation with President Hu Jintao of China. October 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator John F. Kerry. He then traveled to Landover, MD, where he visited Metropolitan Archives. Later, at the Department of the Treasury, he attended a catastrophic earthquake tabletop exercise.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Newark, NJ.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he had a teleconference meeting with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator James H. Webb. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Patrick J. Leahy. The President announced his intention to nominate Betty E. King to be U.S. Representative to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Lillian A. Sparks to be Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans at the Department of Health and Human Services. October 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Boston, MA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cambridge, MA, where, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he toured two environmental research laboratories. Later, he traveled to Stamford, CT. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Caryn A. Wagner to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip S. Goldberg to be Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate P. David Lopez to be General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. October 24 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the situation in Iran. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia to discuss the situation in Iran and Russia-U.S. relations. The President declared an emergency in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area struck by explosions and fire beginning on October 23 and continuing. October 25 In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to express his condolences for the loss of life due to the suicide bombings in Baghdad. October 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Jacksonville, FL. Then, at Naval Air Station Jacksonville, he met with Gold Star families. Later, he met with U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps personnel.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL. October 27 In the morning, the President traveled to Arcadia, FL. In the afternoon, the President toured DeSoto Next Generation Solar Energy Center. He then traveled to Norfolk, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Philip E. Coyle III to be Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Lawrence G. Romo to be Director of the Selective Service System. October 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, on the North Portico, the President participated in a commemorative tree planting ceremony. In the evening, the President traveled to Dover, DE, arriving the following morning. October 29 Later in the morning, at Dover Air Force Base, the President met with the families of 18 military and Drug Enforcement Administration personnel killed in Afghanistan. He then witnessed the dignified transfer of the deceased. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Patrick J. Leahy. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a bill signing ceremony for H.R. 621, the Girl Scouts USA Centennial Commemorative Coin Act. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with representatives of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to discuss health care reform.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to the White House on December 7. The President announced his intention to nominate Suresh Kumar to be Assistant Secretary for Trade Promotion and Director General of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate James P. Lynch to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics at the Department of Justice. The President announced that he has nominated William Conley to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. The President announced that he has nominated Brian Jackson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. October 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Seretse Khama Ian Khama of Botswana to the Oval Office on November 5. October 31 In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted trick-or-treaters. Later, in the East Room, they hosted a Halloween reception for military families and the children of White House and Residence staff. November 1 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., who briefed him on the situation in Afghanistan. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA, arriving in the afternoon.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Camden, NJ.  Later, he returned to Philadelphia, PA, from which he traveled to Newark, NJ. He then returned to Washington, DC. November 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. November 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with His All Holiness, Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Blanche L. Lincoln. The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria A. Lipnic to be a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. November 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. He then traveled to Madison, WI, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with Governor-elect Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey, Governor-elect Robert McDonnell of Virginia, Congressman-elect William L. Owens, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City to congratulate them on their election victories. He also left a message of congratulations for Congressman-elect John Garamendi. The President announced that he has nominated Albert Diaz and James A. Wynn, Jr. to be judges on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. The President announced that he has nominated John Gibbons to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated Robert W. Heun to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Alaska. November 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Then, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with representatives of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Lt. Gen. Robert W. Cone, commanding general, III Corps and Fort Hood, to discuss the shooting at Fort Hood. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III on the shooting at Fort Hood. November 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, in which he was briefed by Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, Adm. Michael G. Mullen, USN, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III on the shooting at Fort Hood. In the afternoon, the President visited Walter Reed Army Medical Center, where he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and awarded two Purple Heart medals to military personnel. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Congressman-elect William L. Owens. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Berlin, Germany, to attend the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall on November 9: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); Philip D. Murphy; Brent Scowcroft; Zbigniew Brzezinski; and Craig Kennedy. The President announced his intention to name Cassandra Q. Butts to be Senior Advisor to the Office of the Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President made additional disaster assistance available to North Dakota by authorizing an increase in the level of Federal funding for public assistant projects undertaken as a result of severe storms and flooding during the period of March 13 to August 10. November 7 In the morning, at the Cannon House Office Building, the President addressed the House Democratic Caucus. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Camp David, MD. November 8 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, several House of Representatives leaders, AARP chief executive officer A. Barry Rand, American Nurses Association president Rebecca M. Patton, and American Medical Association Board of Trustees member Rebecca J. Patchin to discuss the passage of health care reform legislation. November 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, in which he was briefed on the investigation of the November 5 shooting at Fort Hood. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President stopped by the United Jewish Communities reception. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. The President announced his intention to nominate Joshua Gotbaum to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Raul Perea-Henze to be Assistant Secretary of Policy and Planning at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Carrie Hessler Radelet to be Deputy Director of the U.S. Peace Corps. The President announced his intention to nominate Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations Human Rights Council with the rank of Ambassador.  The President announced his intention to nominate Laura E. Kennedy to be U.S. Representative to the Conference on Disarmament with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced that he will appoint the following individuals as members of the Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission: Peggy Noonan; John F.W. Rogers; Frederick J. Ryan, Jr.; and Fred W. Smith. November 10 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Fort Hood, TX, where, at III Corps Headquarters, they met with the families of the victims of the November 5 shooting at Fort Hood. In the afternoon, at III Corps Headquarters, the President and Mrs. Obama met with soldiers wounded in the November 5 shooting and their families. Later, at Darnall Army Medical Center, they met with soldiers wounded in the shooting. They then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Erin C. Conaton to be Under Secretary of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia Attwood to be a member of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Sandford Blitz to be Federal Cochair of the Northern Border Regional Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas A. Criscitello to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced that he has nominated Rajiv Shah to be Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced that he will appoint Emil Fish and Larry Pressler as members of the U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. November 11 In the morning, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Veterans Day breakfast. Later, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where he participated in a Veterans Day wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery. They then visited Section 60 of the cemetery, where service members killed in Iraq and Afghanistan are buried. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. Later, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. November 12 In the morning, the President traveled to Elmendorf Air Force Base, AK, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President met with the family of Cpl. Gregory M.W. Fleury, USMC, who was killed in Afghanistan on October 26. He then met with U.S. military personnel. Later, he traveled to Tokyo, Japan, arriving the following afternoon. November 13 In the evening, the President traveled to the Kantei. Later, he had dinner with Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan. He then traveled to the Hotel Okura Tokyo. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter C. Jones to be U.S. Executive Director of the African Development Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate Leocadia I. Zak to be Director of the U.S. Trade and Development Agency. The President announced that he has appointed Olivia Morgan as a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. November 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Suntory Hall. Later, he returned to the Hotel Okura Tokyo, where he met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. He then traveled to the Imperial Palace. In the afternoon, the President had lunch with Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko of Japan. He then returned to the Hotel Okura Tokyo. Later, he traveled to Singapore, arriving in the evening. Later in the evening, the President traveled to the Shangri-La Hotel, Singapore. He then traveled to Istana Palace, where he attended the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders' dinner. Later, he returned to the Shangri-La Hotel. November 15 In the morning, the President met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. Later, he participated in a working breakfast with several other world leaders to discuss climate change. He then traveled to Istana Palace, where he was greeted by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore.  Later in the morning, the President participated in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit retreat session. In the afternoon, the President returned to the Shangri-La Hotel, Singapore. Later, he met with Prime Minister Abhisit Wechachiwa of Thailand. In the evening, the President traveled to Shanghai, China. Upon arrival at Pudong International Airport, he traveled to the Portman Ritz-Carlton, Shanghai hotel, arriving the following morning. November 16 Later in the morning, the President met with U.S. consulate staff and their families. He then traveled to the Xijiao State Guest Hotel, where he met with Party Secretary of the Shanghai Municipal Committee of the Communist Party of China Yu Zhengsheng and Mayor Han Zheng of Shanghai, China. Later, they had a working lunch. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Shanghai Science and Technology Museum. Later, he traveled to Beijing, China. Upon arrival at Beijing Capital International Airport, he participated in a welcoming ceremony. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the St. Regis Beijing hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, where he was greeted by President Hu Jintao of China. He then met with and had dinner with President Hu. Later, he returned to the St. Regis Beijing hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Julie Brill and Edith Ramirez to be Commissioners of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott H. DeLisi to be Ambassador to Nepal. The President announced his intention to nominate Beatrice W. Welters to be Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago. The President announced his intention to nominate Earl F. Gohl, Jr., to be Federal Cochair of the Appalachian Regional Commission. November 17 In the morning, the President traveled to the Great Hall of the People, where he participated in a welcoming ceremony. In the afternoon, the President returned to the St. Regis Beijing hotel. Later, he toured the Forbidden City.  Following the tour, he signed the guest book at the Gate of Loyal Obedience.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the U.S. Embassy, where he met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. He then returned to the St. Regis Beijing hotel. Later, he returned to the Great Hall of the People, where he met with Chairman of the National People's Congress Wu Bangguo. In the evening, the President attended a state dinner. Later, he returned to the St. Regis Beijing hotel. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Petzel to be Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur Elkins, Jr., to be Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Nicole Y. Lamb-Hale to be Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services at the Department of Commerce. November 18 In the morning, the President participated in separate interviews with Chip Reid of CBS News, Chuck Todd of NBC News, Major Garrett of FOX News Channel, and Ed Henry of CNN. Later, he traveled to the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse.  In the afternoon, the President had a working lunch with Premier Wen Jiabao of China. Later, he toured the Great Wall of China. He then traveled to Osan Air Base, South Korea, arriving in the evening. Later in the evening, upon arrival at Osan Air Base, the President participated in a welcoming ceremony. He then traveled to Seoul, South Korea. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter Isaacson to be Chair of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Broadcasting Board of Governors: Michael Lynton; Susan McCue; Michael P. Meehan; Victor H. Ashe; Dennis Mulhaupt; Dana Perino; and S. Enders Wimbush. November 19 In the morning, the President met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. Later, he traveled to the Blue House, where he participated in an arrival ceremony with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. In the afternoon, the President had a working lunch with President Lee. He then traveled to Osan Air Base, South Korea. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, crossing the international dateline and arriving in the afternoon. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Littlefield to be President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Harry K. Thomas, Jr., to be Ambassador to the Philippines. The President announced his intention to nominate David Adelman to be Ambassador to Singapore. November 20 The President announced his intention to nominate Maria S. Matiella to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Management at the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul L. Oostburg Sanz to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Solomon B. Watson IV to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen S. Tighe to be Inspector General of the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Orlan Johnson to be chair of the board of directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon Y. Bowen to be vice-chair of the board of directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. November 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Joe Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with their national security team to discuss the situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. November 24 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India and his wife Gursharan Kaur upon their arrival for a state dinner.  November 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at Martha's Table, Inc., the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia handed out Thanksgiving groceries to needy families. The White House announced that the President will travel to Copenhagen, Denmark, on December 9 to participate in the United Nations Climate Change Conference. November 26 In the morning, the President had Thanksgiving holiday telephone conversations with 10 U.S. service members serving in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Persian Gulf. November 27 The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia at the White House on November 30. November 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had separate telephone conversations with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen of Denmark. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to discuss U.S. policy regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the evening, the President had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss U.S. policy regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Ian C. Kelly to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Allan J. Katz to be Ambassador to Portugal. The President announced his intention to nominate Bisa Williams to be Ambassador to Niger. The President announced his intention to nominate Raul H. Yzaguirre, Sr., to be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick K. Nakamura to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Willie L. Richardson, Jr., to be U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia. The President announced that he has nominated Christopher A. Crofts to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Wyoming. The President announced that he has nominated James L. Santelle to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. The President announced that he has nominated Thomas G. Walker to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Barbara L. McQuade to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan. December 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an economic briefing. He then had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan to discuss U.S. policy regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan to discuss U.S. policy regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Nobel Laureates and their families. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with congressional leadership to discuss U.S. policy regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan. Later, he traveled to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, arriving in the evening. Later in the evening, the President signed the U.S. Military Academy guest book. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Khouri to be a member of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate David Mills to be Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas A. Rediker to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund Executive Board. December 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Evan Bayh. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator Lindsey O. Graham. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Michel Sleiman of Lebanon to the White House on December 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Rosemary A. DiCarlo to be Deputy Permanent U.S. Representative to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Brooke D. Anderson to be U.S. Alternate Representative for Special Political Affairs to the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas B. Wilson to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Malcolm Ross O'Neill to be Assistant Secretary for Acquisitions, Logistics, and Technology at the Department of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Jackalyne Pfannenstiel to be Assistant Secretary for Installations and Environment at the Department of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald L. Cook to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs at the National Nuclear Security Administration. December 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on October 29 and continuing. December 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Allentown, PA, where he toured Allentown Metal Works, Inc.. In the afternoon, at the Hamilton Family Restaurant, the President had lunch with local business and government leaders. Later, he toured the Pennsylvania CareerLink of Lehigh Valley and met with workers and job seekers. He then visited the Nestle Purina PetCare Company plant, where he met with workers. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Judith Ann Stewart Stock to be Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate David L. Strickland to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate William B. Sansom to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced that he has nominated Nancy D. Freudenthal to be a judge on the U.S. District Court of Wyoming. The President announced that he has nominated D. Price Marshall, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas. The President announced that he has nominated Benita Y. Pearson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. December 6 In the afternoon, at the Capitol, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with the Senate Democratic Caucus.  In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the Kennedy Center Honors Gala at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. December 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with Prime Minister Erdogan. Then, in the Map Room, the President participated in an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS’s "60 Minutes" program for later broadcast. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry and Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, USA, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with former Vice President Al Gore. In the evening, on the State Floor, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a holiday reception for Members of Congress. The President announced his intention to nominate David T. Matsuda to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. Huerta to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. December 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by an economic briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. December 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with bipartisan Members of Congress to discuss efforts to strengthen the economy and create jobs. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business and environmental leaders to discuss the Copenhagen conference. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Oslo, Norway, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia A. Hoffman to be Assistant Secretary for Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Mari Del Carmen Aponte to be Ambassador to El Salvador. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald E. Booth to be Ambassador to Ethiopia. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry Persily to be Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding associated with Tropical Depression Ida beginning on November 11 and continuing. December 10 In the morning, after arriving at Oslo Airport Gardermoen, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Norwegian Nobel Institute, where they attended the Nobel Prize guest book signing ceremony. Later, they traveled to the Prime Minister's Office, where they were greeted by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of Norway. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Royal Palace, where they participated in an official photograph with King Harald V and Queen Sonja of Norway. They then had a private audience with the King and Queen. Later, they traveled to Oslo City Hall. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Grand Hotel. In the evening, from the Grand Hotel balcony, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted Torch Parade participants. Later, they greeted King Harald V and Queen Sonja upon their arrival for the Nobel Banquet.  The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon E. Burke to be Director of Operational Energy Plans and Programs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Marilyn A. Brown to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate William C. Ostendorff to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from October 29 to November 3. December 11 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. Later, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. December 13 During the day, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a holiday party. December 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed of Bangladesh to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had lunch with Vice President Biden. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senator Robert  Casey, Jr. In the evening, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a holiday party. December 15 In the morning, the President had a video teleconference with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. He then traveled to Alexandria, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with business leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates. During the day, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a holiday party. December 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an economic briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with U.S. Peace Corps Director Aaron S. Williams. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Chairwoman Inez Moore Tenenbaum. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with National Aeronautics and Space Administration Administrator Charles F. Bolden, Jr. He then had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tillman Thomas of Grenada to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Later, on the State Floor, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a Hanukkah reception. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. The President announced his intention to nominate Marie Collins Johns to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Gwendolyn E. Boyd and Peggy Goldwater Clay to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan M. Young to be Chair of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Council on Disability: Carol Jean Reynolds; Fernando Torres-Gil; Chester Alonzo Finn; Gary Blumenthal; Sara Gelser; Ari Ne'eman; and Dongwoo Joseph  Pak.  The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm on November 16 and 17. December 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with members of the National Economic Council. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the evening, the President traveled to Copenhagen, Denmark, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Wolf to be Assistant Secretary for Export Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy McGee to be Assistant Secretary for Observation and Prediction at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Theodore W. Tozer to be president of the Government National Mortgage Association at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon L. Browne, Charles Norman Wiltse Keckler, and Victor B. Maddox to be members of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. December 18 In the morning, upon arrival at Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, the President traveled to the Bella Center. He then participated in a multilateral meeting with foreign leaders to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference. Later, he met with Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen of Denmark. Later in the morning, the President met with Premier Wen Jiabao of China. In the afternoon, the President participated in an official photograph with United Nations Climate Change Conference participants. He then greeted and met with foreign leaders during the convention luncheon. Later, he met with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil.  Later in the afternoon, the President participated in the afternoon plenary session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference.  In the evening, the President participated in a multilateral meeting with foreign leaders to discuss the United Nations Climate Change Conference. He then met with Premier Wen Jiabao of China. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and rockslides from October 6–11. December 20 In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a holiday party. December 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the National Economic Council. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with the recipient of the Securing Americans Value and Efficiency (SAVE) Award, Nancy Fichtner. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a telephone interview with Tom Joyner of "The Tom Joyner Morning Show." Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.  December 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a telephone interview with Steve Harvey of "The Steve Harvey Morning Show." Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he taped a New Year's message for later broadcast on December 31. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with members of the National Economic Council. The President announced his intention to nominate Beatrice A. Hanson to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute: Daniel J. Becker; James R. Hannah; Gayle A. Nachtigal; and John B. Nalbandian. The President announced that he has nominated J. Michelle Childs and Richard M. Gergel to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated William N. Nettles to be U.S. attorney for the District of South Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Kelvin C. Washington to be U.S. marshal for the District of South Carolina. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Ida on November 9 and 10. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding associated with Tropical Depression Ida and a nor'easter from November 11–15. December 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in an interview with Julie Rovner and Robert Siegel of National Public Radio. Later, in the Map Room, he participated in an interview with Jim Lehrer of PBS's "PBS NewsHour." The President announced that he has nominated Noel C. March to be U.S. marshal for the District of Maine. The President announced that he has nominated George White to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Mississippi. The President announced that he has nominated Andre Birotte, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated David A. Capp to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Indiana. The President announced that he has nominated Richard S. Hartunian to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated William J. Hochul, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Ronald C. Machen, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Anne M. Tompkins to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. The President announced that he has nominated Sally Quillian Yates to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. The President announced that he will appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board: Roel C. Campos; Lee H. Hamilton; Rita E. Hauser; Paul G. Kaminski; Ellen Laipson; Lester L. Lyles; and Jami Miscik. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm from November 14–16. December 24 In the morning, after the President was informed that the Senate passed H.R. 3590, "The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act," he had separate telephone conversations with Victoria R. Kennedy, widow of Senator Edward M. Kennedy; David Turner of Little Rock, AR, who lost his health insurance earlier this year; and Senators Harry Reid, Christopher J. Dodd, Richard J. Durbin, John D. "Jay" Rockefeller IV, Max S. Baucus, Robert C. Byrd, Sherrod Brown, Charles E. Schumer, Thomas R. Harkin, Deborah A. Stabenow, Patty Murray, and Roland Burris. He then had Christmas holiday telephone conversations with 10 U.S. service members serving in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Persian Gulf.  Later in the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Honolulu, HI, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and Sasha and Malia traveled to Kailua, HI. The President announced that he has nominated Timothy S. Black to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. The President announced that he has nominated Gloria M. Navarro to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. December 25 In the morning, the President's military aide informed him of the attempted terrorist attack aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253 during the plane's final approach at Detroit Metropolitan Airport. He then had a conference call briefing with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis McDonough. Later, he had a conference call briefing with national security officials and advisers. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Kaneohe Bay, where, in the mess hall, they met with marines and their families. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. December 26 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a conference call briefing with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R.  McDonough to discuss the heightened air travel security measures that were put in place after the attempted terrorist attack aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on December 25. December 27 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then had a conference call briefing with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R.  McDonough to discuss the progress of the investigation into the attempted terrorist attack aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on December 25, the heightened air travel security measures put in place after the incident, and the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities.  Later in the morning, National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R.  McDonough informed him of a resolved nonterrorist incident aboard another Northwest Flight 253 that landed at Detroit Metropolitan Airport earlier in the day. December 28 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a conference call briefing with Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan to discuss the progress of the investigation into the attempted terrorist attack aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on December 25 and the heightened air travel security measures put in place after the incident. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Kaneohe Bay, where he was briefed by National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R.  McDonough on the investigation into the December 25 attempted terrorist attack. Later, he returned to Kailua, HI. December 29 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a conference call briefing with National Security Adviser James L. Jones, Jr., Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, and Deputy National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon to discuss the progress of the investigation into the attempted terrorist attack aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on December 25, the heightened air travel security measures put in place after the incident, and the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Kaneohe Bay. He then returned to Kailua, HI. During the day, the President met with National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R.  McDonough to discuss the investigation into the December 25 attempted terrorist attack, the heightened air travel security measures put in place after the incident, and the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities. December 30 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon E. Panetta to discuss the suicide bombing at Forward Operating Base Chapman in Khost Province, Afghanistan, and to express his condolences for the CIA personnel killed in the bombing. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan to discuss the suicide bombing at Forward Operating Base Chapman. December 31 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano to discuss the progress of the investigation into the attempted terrorist attack aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on December 25, the heightened air travel security measures put in place after the incident, the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities, and counterterrorism efforts. During the day, the President had a conference call briefing with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and National Security Council Chief of Staff Denis R.  McDonough to discuss the progress of the investigation into the December 25 attempted terrorist attack, the heightened air travel security measures, and the reviews of terrorist watch list procedures and airport security detection capabilities. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding associated with Tropical Depression Ida and a nor'easter from November 12–14. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding from December 12–18. Names: Abbas, Mahmoud "Abu Mazen"; Abbey, Robert V.; Abbott, Sherburne B. "Shere"; Abdullah, Abdullah; Abercrombie, Neil; Abhisit Wechachiwa; Adamkus, Valdas; Addleton, Jonathan; Adelman, David; Adelstein, Jonathan S.; Adler, Robert S.; Adorno, Rolena Klahn; Agnew, David P.; Akaka, Daniel Kahikina; Albright, Madeleine K.; Alexander, Adele Logan; Aliyev, Ilham; Allison, Herbert M., Jr.; Anastas, Paul T.; Anderson, Brooke D.; Anderson, Henry; Andrew, Anne Slaughter; Angelo, Thomas E.; Aponte, Mari Del Carmen; Apostolakis, George; Appel, Peter H.; Aranavat, Gustavo; Arias Sanchez, Oscar; Ashe, Victor; Ashe, Victor H.; Aso, Taro; Atesyan, Archbisohp Aram; Atta, Osabarima Kwesi, II; Attwood, Cynthia; Auriemma, Geno; Avalos, Edward M.; Avant, Nicole A.; Babacan, Ali; Babauta, Anthony M.; Babbitt, J. Randolph; Bachelet Jeria, Michelle; Bader, Joseph F.; Baker, Meredith Attwell; Baker, Peter; Baker, Roger; Balkenende, Jan Peter; Ban Ki-moon; Barr, Michael S.; Barton, Frederick; Barzun, Matthew W.; Bass, John R.; Bassin, Ian; Battle, Michael A., Sr.; Baucus, Max S.; Bayh, Evan; Becker, Craig; Becker, Daniel J.; Beebe, Mickey D. "Mke"; Beers, R. Rand; Benjamin, Daniel; Benjamin, Regina M.; Bennett, Barbara J.; Bennett, Robert; Berger, Irene C.; Berlusconi, Silvio; Bernanke, Ben S.; Berrien, Jacqueline A.; Berry, John; Berry, M. John; Bersin, Alan D.; Bertone, Tarcisio Cardinal; Bertram, Christopher P.; Beshear, Steven L.; Beyer, Donald S., Jr.; Bharara, Preet; Bhargava, Anju; Biden, Jill; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Birotte, Andre, Jr.; Black, Timothy S.; Blahous, Charles; Blake, Charles; Blake, Michael; Blake, Robert O.; Blanchard, Charles A.; Blank, Rebecca M.; Blatter, Joseph S.; Blau, Robert; Bleich, Jeffrey L/; Blitz, Sandford "Sandy"; Bloom, Ron; Bloomberg, Michael R.; Blumenthal, Gary; Bogden, Daniel G.; Bolden, Charles F., Jr.; Bongo, Omar; Booth, Donald E.; Borras, Rafael; Borzi, Phyllis C.; Bostic, Raphael; Bosworth, Stephen W.; Bowne, Sharon Y.; Boyd, April S.; Boyd, Gwendolyn E.; Boylan, Lorelei; Brainard, Lael; Breathitt, Linda; Brennan, John O.; Brill, Julie S.; Brimmer, Esther; Brinkman, William F.; Brokaw, Tom; Brown, Gayleatha B.; Brown, Gordon; Brown, Kenyen R.; Brown, Marilyn A.; Brown, Sherrod; Browne, Sharon L.; Bruni-Sarkozy, Carla; Bryant, L. Preston, Jr.; Brzezinski, Zbigniew; Buehrle, Mark A.; Burk, Susan F.; Burke, Dennis; Burke, Sharon E.; Burman, Kendall C.; Burris, Roland; Bush, George W.; Butenis, Patricia A.; Butler, Louis B., Jr.; Butts, Cassandra Q.; Bylsma, Dan; Byrd, Robert C.; Cagrici, Mustafa; Cahill, Patricia D.; Calderon Hinojosa, Felipe de Jesus; Callahan, Richard; Calmy-Rey, Micheline; Cameron, David; Campbell, Kurt; Campbell, Martha L.; Campbell, Mary Schmidt; Campos, Roel C.; Cannon, Jonathan Z.; Canter, Virginia; Cantu, Alonzo; Capp, David A.; Carbon, Susan B.; Cargill, David L., Jr.; Carrion, Adolfo, Jr.; Carson, Johnnie; Carter, Ashton; Carter, Phillip, III; Cartwright, James E.; Casey, Robert "Bob," Jr.; Casey, Robert P., Jr.; Castle, Anne; Cetin, Yusuf; Chambliss, Saxby; Chemberlin, Peg; Chen, Edward M.; Childs, J. Michelle; Chilton, Bartholomew "Bart"; Chin, Denny; Christie, Christopher J.; Chu, Judy; Chu, Steven; Clark, Julia A.; Clark, Wesley K.; Clay, Peggy Goldwater; Cleland, Joseph M. "Max"; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, William J.; Clooney, George; Clyburn, Mignon L.; Coats, Sanford C.; Coburn, Thomas A.; Cochran, Kelvin, J.; Coffin, Tristram; Cohen, David S.; Cohen, George H.; Collins, Francis S.; Collyns, Charles; Colvin, Carolyn W.; Commons, Gladys J.; Conaton, Erin C.; Concannon, Kevin; Cone, Robert W.; Conley, William; Connan, Robert S.; Connor, Michael L.; Conrad, Kent; Cook, Donald L.; Cooper, Anderson; Cooper, Helene; Corbett, Rebecca; Corker, Robert; Correa Delgado, Rafael; Corvington, Patrick A.; Coscia, Anthony R.; Cotter, Michael W.; Couric, Katie; Cousin, Ertharin; Cowen, Brian; Coyle, Philip E., III; Craig, Gregory B.; Criscitello, Douglas A.; Crist, Charles J., Jr.; Crofts, Christopher A.; Crowley, James; Crowley, Jeffrey S.; Crowley, Philip J. "P.J."; Crown Prince Willem-Alexander; Daalder, Ivo H.; D'Agostino, Thomas P.; Dann-Messier, Brenda; Darcy, Jo-Ellen; Daschle, Thomas A.; Daugherty, Brad; Davidow, Jeffrey; Davies, Glyn; Davies, Susan; Davis, Andre; de Baca, Luis C.; de Hoop Scheffer, Jakob Gijsbert "Jaap"; Deeds, R. Creigh; Delahunt, William D.; DeLisi, Scott H.; Dell, Christopher W.; Demag, David E.; Demeo, Marisa J.; DePass, Michelle J.; DeRosa, Mary; Derse, Anne E.; Dettelbach, Steven; Devaney, Earl E.; Diament, Nathan; Diaz, Albert; Diaz, Miguel H.; Diaz, Miguel Humberto; Diaz, Nelson; DiCarlo, Rosemary A.; DiClemente, Bert; DiMicco, Daniel R.; Dingell, John D., Jr.; Dodd, Christopher J.; Donahoe, Eileen Chamberlain; Donilon, Thomas E.; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; Dorgan, Byron L.; Dorsey, Cheryl L.; Douglas, Derek; Douglas, James H.; Doyle, James E., Jr.; DuBester, Ernest W.; DuBois, Joshua; Duckworth, Ladda Tammy; Duke, Michael T.; Duncan, Arne; Dunn, Karen; Durao Barroso, Jose Manuel; Durbin, Richard J.; Durkan, Jenny; Eacho, William C., III; Easton, John Q.; EchoHawk, Larry J.; Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew; Eikenberry, Karl W.; Eisen, Norman L.; Eitel, Maria; Elbegdorj, Tsakhia; Elkins, Arthur A., Jr.; Elliott, Daniel R., III; Emanuel, Rahm; Emperor Akihito; Empress Michiko; Engel, Eliot L.; Enzi, Michael B.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Espinel, Victoria A.; Esquea, Jim R.; Estefan, Emilio, Jr.; Evans, Joan M.; Farrell, Diana; Feinstein, Dianne; Feinstein, Lee A.; Feldblum, Chai R.; Feltman, Jeffrey D.; Fernandez De Kirchner, Cristina; Fernandez, Alberto M.; Fernandez, John; Fernandez, Jose W.; Ferriero, David S.; Ferro, Anne S.; Fichtner, Nancy; Field, R. William; Finn, Chester A.; Fischer, Jan; Fish, Emil; Fishman, Paul; Foley, James B.; Fox, Christine H.; Frank, Barney; Franklin, Barbara B.; Freudenthal, Nancy D.; Frieden, Thomas R.; Fugate, W. Craig; Fulton, Colin S. Cole; Fulton, Laurie S.; Fulwood, Isaac, Jr.; Funes Cartagena, Carlos Mauricio; Furman, Jason; Gallagher, Patrick; Garamendi, John; Garber, Judith G.; Garcia Perez, Alan; Garcia, Joe; Garcia, Juan M., III; Garrett, Helen Elizabeth; Garrett, Major; Garver, Lori; Garza, Alexander G.; Gates, Henry L., Jr.; Gates, Henry Louis, Jr.; Gates, Robert M.; Gayle, Helene D.; Gaytan, Peter S.; Gee, Dolly M.; Geithner, Timothy F.; Gelser, Sara A.; Genachowski, Julius; George, Francis Cardinal; Gergel, Richard M.; Gibbons, John; Gibbs, Robert L.; Gibson, Charles; Giles, Cynthia J.; Gilg, Deborah K.R.; Gillette, Jodi Archambault; Gillibrand, Kristen; Gilmore, J. Michael; Gingrich, Newton L. "Newt"; Ginsberg, Daniel B.; Ginsburg, Ruth Bader; Gips, Donald; Gitenstein, Mark H.; Glied, Sherry; Gohl, Earl F., Jr.; Goldberg, Philip S.; Goldman, Julianna; Goldstein, Jeffrey; Goldway, Ruth Y.; Gomez, Gabriella; Gompert, David C.; Gonzalez, Roberto J.; Goosby, Eric; Gorbachev, Mikhail S.; Gordon, Daniel I.; Gordon, Philip "Phil"; Gore, Al; Gotbaum, Joshua; Gottemoeller, Rose; Gottlieb, Michael; Graham, Lindsey O.; Granholm, Jennifer M.; Grassley, Charles E.; Gration, J. Scott; Gray, Danielle; Gray, Gordon; Green, Jason G.; Greenaway, Joseph A., Jr.; Greenlee, Kathy; Gregg, Donald P.; Gregoire, Christine; Gregorian, Vartan; Gregson, Wallace "Chip," Jr.; Gresham, Dana; Grey, Robert J., Jr.; Griffin, Christine M.; Gross, Kenneth E., Jr.; Groves, Robert M.; Grundmann, Susan Tsui; Gul, Abdullah ; Gul, Abdullah; Gunn, William; Gustafson, Peggy E.; Guthrie, Priscilla E.; Gutman, Howard W.; Guzy, Gary S.; Gyllenhall, Jake; Hale, Cynthia; Haleva, Isak; Hamburg, Margaret "Peggy"; Hamilton, David; Hamilton, Lee H.; Hamilton, Sam D.; Han Zheng; Hannah, James R.; Hanson, Beatrice A.; Harden, Krysta; Harkin, Thomas R.; Harman, Elizabeth M.; Harmon, Deborah; Harper, Stephen; Harper, Stephen ; Harris, Blake; Harris, Seth; Hart, Christopher A.; Hartfield, Edward F.; Hartog-Levin, Fay; Hartunian, Richard S.; Harvey, Steve; Hasina Wajed, Sheikh; Haskew, Barbara; Hatch, Orrin G.; Hatoyama, Yukio; Haubegger, Christy; Hauser, Rita E.; Hayes, Brian; Heaphy, Timothy J.; Heddell, Gordon; Henriquez, Sandra; Henry, Brad; Henry, Ed; Henry, Peter; Hersman, Deborah A.P.; Heun, Robert W.; Hewitt, Emily C.; Heyman, David F.; Hightower, Dennis F.; Hill, Christopher R.; Hill, Nicholas M.; Hirono, Mazie K.; Hirschhorn, Eric L.; Hochberg, Fred P.; Hochul, William J., Jr.; Hockenberry, John; Hoffman, Patricia A.; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holder, Eric H., Jr.; Honeywell, Charlene E.; Hooks, Craig E.; Hormats, Robert D.; Hoyer, Steny H.; Hu Jintao; Hubbard, Thomas C.; Hudson, James L.; Huebner, David; Huerta, Michael P.; Hume, Cameron R.; Hunter, Roszell "Rod"; Huntsman, Jon M., Jr.; Hurley, Charles A. "Chuck"; Hussain, Rashad; Hyde, Pamela S.; Ignatieff, Michael; Inhofe, James M.; Irving, Earl M.; Isaacson, Walter; Jackson, Brian; Jackson, Ketanji Brown; Jackson, Lisa P.; Jackson, Phil; Jacksteit, Mary; Jacobson, David C.; Jacques, Steven; Jaczko, Gregory B.; Jarvis, Jonathan B.; Jean, Michaelle; Jefferson, Raymond M.; Jenkins, Bonnie D.; Johns, Marie C.; Johnson, Brendan; Johnson, Kristina M.; Johnson, Martha; Johnson, Marvin E.; Johnson, Orlan; Jones, B. Todd; Jones, James L., Jr.; Jones, Kerri-Ann; Jones, Walter C.; Jordan, Mary L.; Joyner, Tom; Kacavas, John P.; Kagan, Elena; Kallon, Abdul K.; Kaminski, Paul G.; Kammerzell, John L.; Kanovsky, Helen R.; Kanter, Martha J.; Kantor, Jodi; Kaplan, Samuel L.; Kappes, Stephen R.; Kappos, David J.; Kaptur, Marcia C. "Marcy"; Karzai, Hamid; Katz, Allan J.; Kaur, Gursharan; Keckler, Charles N.W.; Keehan, Carol A.; Keenan, Barbara Milano; Kelly, Ian C.; Kelly, Suedeen G.; Kendall, Frank, III; Kennard, William E.; Kennedy, Brian; Kennedy, Claudia; Kennedy, Craig; Kennedy, Edward M.; Kennedy, Laura E.; Kennedy, Victoria R.; Kerlikowske, R. Gil; Kerr, T. Michael; Kerry, Cameron F.; Kerry, John F.; Kessler, Alan; Key, John P.; Khama, Seretse Khama Ian; Khouri, Michael A.; Kienitz, Roy; Kikwete, Jakaya Mrisho; Killion, David; Kim Dae-jung; King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; King Abdullah II; King Harald V; King Juan Carlos I; King, Betty E.; King, Elizabeth; King, Robert R.; Kirk, Ron; Kirk, Ronald; Kissinger, Henry A.; Klinefeldt, Nicholas; Klobuchar, Amy; Kmiec, Douglas; Knight, James; Knox, Harry; Koh, Harold H.; Koh, Harold Hongju; Koh, Howard; Koonin, Steven E.; Kornbluh, Karen; Kovar, Peter; Krass, Caroline; Kravis, Jonathan; Krislov, Marvin; Kroft, Steve; Krueger, Alan B.; Kumar, Suresh; Kundra, Vivek; Kurland, Susan L.; Lago, Marisa; LaHood, Ray H.; Laipson, Ellen; Lamb-Hale, Nicole Y.; Lamont, Thomas R.; Landesman, Rocco; Laney, James T.; Lange, Roberto A.; Lanier, Jerry P.; Laub, John H.; Leach, James A. "Jim" Smith; Leach, James A.S.; Leahy, Patrick J.; Lee Hsien Loong; Lee Myung-bak; Lee, Euna; Lehrer, Jim; Leibowitz, Jon; Lemen, Richard; Lemnios, Zachary J.; Lenhardt, Alfonso E.; Leonard, Joe, Jr.; Leslie, Jack; Letterman, David; Levi, John G.; Levin, Carl; Lewis, Wilma A.; Lidinsky, Richard A., Jr.; Lin, Maya; Lincoln, Blanche L.; Ling, Laura; Lion, Margo; Lipnic, Victoria A.; Litt, Robert S.; Littlefield, Elizabeth L.; Loeffler, Karen; Lomellin, Carmen L.; Lopez, Andres W.; Lopez, P. David; Loven, Jennifer; Lubinski, Sharon; Lula da Silva, Luiz Inacio; Lurie, Nicole; Lyles, Lester L.; Lynch, Gerard; Lynch, James P.; Lynton, Michael; Mabus, Ray; Macapagal-Arroyo, Gloria; MacBride, Neil H.; Machen, Ronald C., Jr.; Maddox, Victor B.; Madison, George W.; Magwood, William D., IV; Main, Joseph A.; Majumdar, Arun; Maliki, Nuri al-; Malin, Martin H.; Manning, Patrick; Manning, Timothy W.; Manske, Nicole; Manzano-Diaz, Sara; Marantis, Demetrios; March, Noel C.; Markowsky, James J.; Marquez, Mercedes; Marshall, Capricia Penavic; Marshall, D. Price, Jr.; Martin, Beverly B.; Martin, Paul K.; Martinez, Kathy; Martinez, Mark A.; Martinez, Vilma S.; Matiella, Maria S.; Matsuda, David T.; Matz, Deborah; May, Genevieve L.; Mayfield, Irvin M., Jr.; Mayorkas, Alejandro N. "Ali"; McBride, Neil; McCain, John; McCarthy, Dennis M.; McCarthy, Gina; McChrystal, Annie; McChrystal, Stanley A.; McConnell, Addison M. "Mitch"; McCue, Susan; McDonnell, Robert; McDonough, Denis; McDonough, Denis R. ; McDowell, Robert M.; McGee, Timothy; McGrath, Shaun; McGuinness, Martin; McHale, Judith A.; McHugh, John M.; McLellan, A. Thomas; McNutt, Marcia K.; McQuade, Barbara L.; Medvedev, Dmitry A.; Medvedeva, Svetlana; Meehan, Michael P.; Meeks, Gregory W.; Melendez de Santa Ana, Thelma; Meles Zenawi; Melhem, Hisham; Meltzer, Daniel J.; Mendez, Victor M.; Merkel, Angela; Merrigan, Kathleen A.; Merrill, David N.; Merten, Kenneth H.; Michaels, David; Mikva, Laurie; Miller, Anthony Wilder; Miller, George; Miller, James N., Jr.; Miller, James W.; Miller, Mary J.; Miller, Warren F. "Pete," Jr.; Mills, David W.; Mills, John Evans Atta; Minow, Martha L.; Minton, Mark C.; Miscik, Jami; Mitchell, Cranston; Mitchell, George J.; Moelis, Cindy S.; Mogahed, Dalia; Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Moller, Patricia N.; Monson, Thomas S.; Moore, Michael J.; Moreno, Ignacia S.; Morgan, Olivia; Morin, Jamie M.; Morrison, Trevor; Morton, John; Motlanthe, Kgalema; Mubarak, Mohamed Hosni; Mudd, Philip; Mueller, Robert S., III; Mulhaupt, Dennis; Mullen, Michael G.; Mulligan, George D., Jr.; Mundaca, Michael F.; Munoz, George; Murkowski, Lisa; Murphy, Philip D.; Murray, Ellen; Murray, Patty; Nacht, Michael; Nachtigal, Gayle A.; Najib bin Abdul Razak, Mohamed; Nakakuni, Florence T.; Nakamura, Patrick K.; Nalbandian, Eduard; Nalbandian, John B.; Napolitano, Giorgio; Napolitano, Janet A.; Nathan, Alison J.; Navarro, Gloria M.; Nay, John R.; Nazario, Carmen; Ne'eman, Ari; Nelson, David D.; Nelson, Earl B. "Ben"; Neronha, Peter F.; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Nettles, William N.; Newell, Richard G.; Newton, Lloyd W.; Nguyen, Jacqueline H.; Nicholson, Marvin; Nixon, Jeremiah W. "Jay"; Noonan, Peggy; Norris, John R.; Northup, Anne Meagher; Nunn, Samuel A.; Oaks, Dallin H.; Oates, Jane; Obama Natasha "Sasha"; Obama, Malia; Obama, Natasha "Sasha"; Odierno, Raymond T.; O'Donnell, Steven G.; Olmert, Ehud; O'Malia, Scott; Omidyar, Pierre; O'Neill, Malcolm R.; Oreck, Bruce J.; Ortiz, Carmen M.; Ostendorff, William C.; Otero, Maria; O'Toole, Tara; Owens, Bill; Owens, Stephen A.; Owens, William L.; Pak, Dongwoo J.; Palmer, Arnold; Pan, Florence Y.; Panetta, Leon E.; Papandreou, George A.; Pascual, Carlos; Patchin, Rebecca J.; Patriarch Bartholomew; Patton, Rebecca M.; Payne, Donald M.; Pearce, Mark; Pearson, Benita Y.; Pelosi, Nancy; Pena, Cindy; Perciasepe, Robert; Perea-Henze, Raul; Peres, Shimon; Perez, Tom; Perino, Dana M.; Perry, William J.; Persily, Larry; Peterson, Collin C.; Peterson, Rosanna M.; Petraeus, David H.; Petzel, Robert A.; Pfannenstiel, Jackalyne; Phillips, Andrea; Phillips, John R.; Phillips, Mary E. "Beth"; Phillips, Richard; Picarello, Anthony R., Jr.; Pitt, Brad; Pizarchik, Joseph G.; Pollak, Abigail M.; Polt, Michael C.; Pomeroy, Earl R., III; Poneman, Daniel B.; Pope Benedict XVI; Porcari, John D.; Porter, Roger B.; Posner, Michael H.; Posny, Alexa E.; Powell, Colin L.; Powell, Nancy; Prahar, Peter A.; Pressler, Larry; Preston, Stephen W.; Prince Consort Henrik; Princess Maxima; Prokop, Stephen; Puchala, Linda A.; Punke, Michael; Putin, Vladimir; Quarterman, Cynthia L.; Queen Elizabeth II; Queen Margrethe II; Queen Sonja; Quehl, Scott; Radelet, Carrie Hessler; Ramirez, Edith; Rand, A. Barry; Rangel, Charles B.; Rapp, Stephen J.; Rasmussen, Anders Fogh; Rasmussen, Lars Lokke; Rathod, Nicholas; Ratzan, Nancy; Ray, Charles A.; Reddick, Eunice S.; Rediker, Douglas A.; Reed, Pearlie S.; Rehbein, David K.; Reid, Chip; Reid, Harry; Reischauer, Robert; Reiskin, Julie A.; Reiss, Christina; Rell, M. Jodi; Remy, Donald; Restrepo, Dan; Revere, Evans J.R.; Reynolds, Carol J.; Richardson, David B.; Richardson, Willie L., Jr.; Riojas, Jose D.; Rios, Rosa "Rosie" Gumatao; Rivkin, Charles H.; Rivkin, Robert S.; Roberson, Jessie H.; Roberts, Blake; Roberts, John G., Jr.; Roberts, Robin; Robinson, Elizabeth; Robinson, Laurie O.; Robinson, Marian; Robinson, Peter; Rockefeller, John D. "Jay," IV; Roemer, Timothy J.; Rogers, John F.W.; Rogers, Thomasina V.; Rogge, Jacques; Rogoff, Peter M.; Roh Moo-hyun; Romer, Christina; Romer, Christina D.; Romo, Lawrence G.; Rooney, Daniel M.; Roos, John V.; Rose, Charlie; Rose, Stephanie; Rosekind, Mark R.; Ross, Laura Gore; Roth, Stanley; Roubideaux, Yvette; Rounds, M. Michael; Rovner, Julie; Rowe, Leslie V.; Rudd, Kevin M.; Rudd, Paul; Ruttledge, Lynnae M.; Ryan, Frederick J., Jr.; Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah; Salazar, Kenneth L.; Samuels, Bryan H.; Sanchez, Francisco J. "Frank"; Sandalow, David; Sansom, William B.; Santelle, James L.; Sanz, Paul L. Oostburg; Sapiro, Miriam E.; Sarbanes, Paul Spyros; Sargeant, Winslow; Sargsian, Serzh; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Schmierer, Richard J.; Schroeder, Christopher; Schultz, Ed; Schultz, George P.; Schultz, Howard; Schumer, Charles E.; Schumer, Charles E. ; Schuster, Elaine; Schwartz, Eric P.; Schwarzenegger, Arnold; Scowcroft, Brent; Sebelius, Kathleen; Seeborg, Richard; Segal, Evan; Seidenberg, Ivan G.; Sepulveda, John U.; Serino, Richard A.; Sessions, Jefferson B. "Jeff," III; Sessions, William K., III; Shah, Rajiv; Shannon, Thomas; Shannon, Thomas A.; Shapiro, Andrew J.; Sharfstein, Joshua M.; Sharpton, Alfred C., Jr.; Shaw, Kate; Sher, Susan S.; Sherman, Harris; Sherman, Wendy R.; Sherwood-Randall, Elizabeth; Shinseki, Eric K.; Siddiqui, Islam A.; Siegel, Robert; Silva, Larry; Silva, Peter S.; Simmons, Ruth J.; Sims, Ron; Singh, Manmohan; Skelton, Isaac N. "Ike," IV; Sleiman, Michel; Slutz, Pamela J.H.; Smith, Christopher H.; Smith, Fred W.; Smith, Harry; Smith, James B.; Smith, M. Patricia; Smith, Mary L.; Smith, Stephen J.; Snowe, Olympia J.; Snyder, Larry J.; Soetoro-Ng, Maya; Solomon, Ian H.; Solomont, Alan D.; Sommers, Jill E.; Sorian, Richard; Sotomayor, Sonia; Souter, David H.; Southers, Erroll G.; Sparks, Lillian A.; Spearman, Kenneth A.; Specter, Arlen; Spratt, John McKee, Jr.; Spriggs, William E.; Stabenow, Deborah A.; Stackley, Sean; Stanislaus, Mathy V.; Stanley, Clifford L.; Stephens, Kathleen; Stevens, David H.; Stevens, George, Jr.; Stewart, Carter M.; Stock, Judith Ann Stewart; Stockton, Paul N.; Stolberg, Sheryl Gay; Stoltenberg, Jens; Stranch, Jane B.; Strautmanis, Michael; Strickland, David L.; Strickland, Tom; Strickling, Lawrence E.; Stroum, Cynthia; Suh, Rhea; Sullivan, John J.; Summers, Lawrence H.; Sunstein, Cass R.; Susman, Louis B.; Szabo, Joseph C.; Talabani, Jalal; Tangherlini, Daniel M.; Tarver, Edward J.; Tauscher, Ellen O'Kane; Taylor, Teddy B.; Teehee, Kimberly K.; Tefft, John F.; Tenenbaum, Inez Moore; Thibault, George E.; Thomas, Harry K., Jr.; Thomas, Tillman; Thompson, Jill Long; Thompson, O. Rogeriee; Thorne, David; Thummalapally, Vinai K.; Tighe, Kathleen S.; Todd, Chuck; Tompkins, Anne M.; Tompkins, Hilary; Tonsager, Dallas P.; Torres-Gil, Fernando; Tozer, Theodore W.; Trasvina, John; Traubert, Bryan S.; Triay, Ines; Tribe, Laurence; Trottenberg, Polly; Tsakopoulos-Kounalakis, Eleni; Tsvangirai, Morgan; Tucker, Benjamin B.; Turner, David; Tusk, Donald; Uribe Velez, Alvaro; Valencia-Weber, Gloria; Valenzuela, Arturo A.; Vanaskie, Thomas I.; Vance, Joyce; Verma, Richard R.; Vershbow, Alexander; Verveer, Melanne; Verveer, Philip L.; Viken, Jeffrey L.; Villafuerte, Stephanie; Vilsack, Thomas J.; Volcker, Paul A.; Wagner, Anne M.; Wagner, Benjamin B.; Wagner, Caryn A.; Wakefield, Mary; Walker, Thomas G.; Wallace, Chris; Wallace, Kim N.; Warlick, James B., Jr.; Warlick, Mary Burce; Washington, Kelvin C.; Wasserman, Don; Watkins, Sharon; Watson, Solomon B., IV; Waxman, Henry A.; Weaver, Damon; Webb, James H.; Webb, Wellington E.; Weber, Andrew C.; Weich, Ronald H.; Weideman, Christian A.; Wellinghoff, Jon; Welters, Beatrice W.; Wen Jiabao; Werfel, Daniel; Westphal, Joseph W.; White, Barry B.; White, George; Wilkes, Homer L.; Wilkins, William J.; Williams, Aaron; Williams, Aaron S.; Williams, Bisa; Williams, Brian; Williams, Roy; Wills, Mary Jo; Wilson, Cid; Wilson, Douglas B.; Wilson, Eleanor Kaye; Wimbush, S. Enders; Winokur, Peter S.; Wise, Judy; Witherspoon, Reese; Wolf, Kevin; Wolin, Neal; Wolin, Neal S.; Wolpe, Howard E., III; Wonder, Stevie; Wood, Diane P.; Woods, Eldrick "Tiger"; Work, Robert O.; Wu Bangguo; Wyden, Ronald L.; Wynn, James A., Jr.; Yang Jiechi; Yates, Sally Q.; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Yonkers, Terry A.; Young, Jonathan M.; Yu Zhengsheng; Yudhoyono, Susilo Bambang; Yzaguirre, Raul H., Sr.; Zak, Leocadia I.; Zapatero, Jose Luis Rodriguez; Zardari, Asif Ali; Zeitlin, Jide; Zeleny, Jeff; Zoi, Cathy; Zuma, Jacob. Subjects: AARP; ABC News; Afghanistan : Central Intelligence Agency personnel, casualties; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force, commander; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force commander; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : Presidential runoff election; Afghanistan : Terrorism; Afghanistan : Terrorist attack at Forward Operating Base Chapman in Khost Province; Afghanistan : U.S. Ambassador; Afghanistan : U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration personnel, casualties; Afghanistan : U.S. Forces Afghanistan, commander; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Afghanistan : U.S. policy review; Africa : Sub-Saharan heads of state, lunch with President Obama; African Development Foundation, U.S.; African Union : U.S. Representative; Agriculture, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Administration; Agriculture, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights; Agriculture, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations; Agriculture, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Agriculture, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Agriculture, Department of : Rural Utilities Service; Agriculture, Department of : Secretary; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agriculture Service; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics; Agriculture, Department of : Under Secretary for Rural Development; Air Force, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Management; Air Force, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Installations and Environment; Air Force, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs; Air Force, Department of the : General Counsel; Air Force, Department of the : Under Secretary; Al Arabiya Television; Alabama : Disaster assistance; Alaska : Disaster assistance; Alaska : Elmendorf Air Force Base; Alaska : President's visit; Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects; Alfalfa Club; American Latino, Commission To Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the ; America's Heritage Abroad, Commission for the Preservation of; Amtrak; Andorra : U.S. Ambassador; Appalachian Regional Commission; Archives and Records Administration, National : Archivist ; Argentina : President; Argentina : U.S. Ambassador; Arizona : Grand Canyon National Park; Arizona : President's visit; Arizona : President's visits; Arkansas : Disaster assistance; Arkansas : Governor; Arkansas : Winter storm, damage and recovery efforts; Armed Forces, U.S. : Gold Star families, meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Retired military officers, meeting with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Senior noncommissioned officers, meeting ; Armed Forces, U.S. : Service members :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Service members :: Deployment; Armed Forces, U.S. : Service members :: Meeting ; Armed Forces, U.S. : Service members :: Meetings with President; Armenia : Minister of Foreign Affairs; Armenia : President; Armenia : Relations with Turkey; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Nonproliferation efforts; Army, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Acquisitions, Logistics, and Technology; Army, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Civil Works; Army, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Management; Army, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs; Army, Department of the : Fort Hood, shooting; Army, Department of the : General Counsel; Army, Department of the : Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Army, Department of the : Secretary; Army, Department of the : Under Secretary; Army, Department of the : Walter Reed Army Medical Center; Arts : "Stevie Wonder in Performance at the White House : The Library of Congress Gershwin Prize" event; Arts : "The National Parks: America's Best Idea," White House screening; Arts : Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater; Arts and Humanities, President's Committee on the; Arts and the Humanities, President's Committee on the; Arts, National Council on the; Arts, National Endowment for the; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC); Associated Press; Atomic Energy Agency, International; Australia : Prime Minister; Australia : U.S. Ambassador; Australia : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Austria : U.S. Ambassador; Aviation : Air travel security measures, expansion; Aviation : Airport security detection capabilities, review; Aviation : December 27 non-terrorist incident on Northwest Airlines Flight 253; Aviation Administration, Federal : Administrator; Azerbaijan : President; Bahamas, The : U.S. Ambassador; Bangladesh : Prime Minister; Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation; Battle Monuments Commission, American; Belgium : U.S. Ambassador; Belize : U.S. Ambassador; Benin : U.S. Ambassador; Bloomberg News; Botswana : President; Boy Scouts of America; Brazil : President; Brazil : U.S. Ambassador; Broadcasting Board of Governors; Budget, Federal : Procurement policies, reform; Bulgaria : U.S. Ambassador; Burkina Faso : U.S. Ambassador; Burundi : U.S. Ambassador; Business and industry : Bank chief executive officers, meeting with President; Business and industry : Business leaders, meeting; Business and industry : Business leaders, meetings with President; Business and industry : Labor leaders, meeting with President; Cabinet : Members, meetings with President; Cable News Network; Cable News Network (CNN); California : "The Ed Schultz Radio Show" program; California : Democratic Party event; California : Edison Electric Vehicle Technical Center in Los Angeles; California : Governor; California : President's visit; California : President's visits; California : Representative-elect; California : Village Academy High School at Indian Hill in Pomona; Canada : Governor General; Canada : Liberal Party leader; Canada : President Obama’s visit; Canada : President Obama's visit; Canada : Prime Minister; Canada : U.S. Ambassador; Canada : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Capital Planning Commission, National; CBS : "60 Minutes" program; CBS : "Late Show with David Letterman"; CBS News; CBS, "60 Minutes" program; Central Intelligence Agency; Chad : Sudanese refugees, human rights concerns; Children and youth : Junior 8 (J–8) project; Children's Miracle Network; Chile : President; China : Forbidden City in Beijing, tour; China : Minister of Foreign Affairs; China : National People's Congress, Chairman; China : National People's Congress, Chairman, meeting with President Obama; China : Party Secretary of the Shanghai Municipal Committee of the Communist Party of China; China : Premier; China : President; China : President Obama's visit; China : Shanghai, mayor; China : Strategic and Economic Dialogue, U.S.-China ; China : U.S. Ambassador-designate; China : U.S. consulate staff, meeting with President Obama; China : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Christmas and winter holidays; Civil rights : Minorities :: Jewish community leaders, meeting with President; Colombia : President; Colorado : Denver Museum of Nature and Science; Colorado : President's visits; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Administration; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Economic Development; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Observation and Prediction ; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Observation and Prediction; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Trade Promotion; Commerce, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Commerce, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Commerce, Department of : Economic Development Administration; Commerce, Department of : Foreign Commercial Service, U.S. and ; Commerce, Department of : General Counsel; Commerce, Department of : Industry and Security, Bureau of; Commerce, Department of : Standards and Technology, National Institute of; Commerce, Department of : U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for Economic Affairs; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for Export Administration; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for Intellectual Property; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for International Trade; Commerce, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services; Commerce, Department of the : U.S. Census Bureau; Commerce, international : Free and fair trade; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Unrest; Commerce, international : Group of Eight (G–8) nations; Commerce, international : Group of Twenty (G–20) nations; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S.; Communications : News media :: Newspaper Publishers Association, National; Communications : News media :: Presidential interviews; Communications Commission, Federal; Communications Commission, Federal : Chairman; Community Service, Corporation for National and; Congress : Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus; Congress : Congressional Black Caucus; Congress : Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Congress : Congressional Progressive Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: Budget Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: Democratic Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: Education and Labor Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: Energy and Commerce Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: Financial Services Committee; Congress : House of Representatives :: House Democratic Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: Majority Leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Republican Conference; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker ; Congress : House of Representatives :: Ways and Means Committee; Congress : Members, meetings with President; Congress : New Democrat Coalition; Congress : Senate :: Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee ; Congress : Senate :: Budget Committee; Congress : Senate :: Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee; Congress : Senate :: Democratic Caucus; Congress : Senate :: Energy and Natural Resources Committee; Congress : Senate :: Finance Committee; Congress : Senate :: Former majority leader, meeting with President; Congress : Senate :: Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee; Congress : Senate :: Judiciary Committee; Congress : Senate :: Majority Leader; Congress : Senate :: Minority Leader; Congress : Senate :: Republican Conference; Connecticut : Governor; Connecticut : President's visit; Consumer Product Safety Commission, U.S.; Costa Rica : President; Costa Rica : U.S. Ambassador; Credit Union Administration, National; Croatia : U.S. Ambassador; Cuba : Guantanamo Bay, U.S. Naval Base, closure of detention facilities; Czech Republic : President Obama's visit; Czech Republic : Prime Minister; Czech Republic : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Deaths : Bongo, Omar, President of Gabon; Deaths : Cronkite, Walter; Deaths : Kennedy, Sen. Edward M.; Deaths : Kim Dae-jung, former President of South Korea; Deaths : Roh Moo-hyun, former President of South Korea; Decorations, medals, and awards : 2009 Raytheon MATHCOUNTS National Champions; Decorations, medals, and awards : Gershwin Award for Lifetime Achievement; Decorations, medals, and awards : Nobel Peace Prize; Decorations, medals, and awards : Nobel Prize; Decorations, medals, and awards : Purple Heart medal; Decorations, medals, and awards : Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge, National; Defense and national security : Intelligence and counterterrorism leaders, meeting with President; Defense and national security : Missile defense; Defense and national security : War on terror; Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Global Strategic Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Homeland Defense and Americas' Security Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for International Security Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Reserve Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant to the Secretary for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs; Defense, Department of : Central Command, U.S.; Defense, Department of : Deputy Under Secretary for Acquisition and Technology; Defense, Department of : Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation; Defense, Department of : Director of Defense Research and Engineering; Defense, Department of : Director of Operational Energy Plans and Programs; Defense, Department of : Director of Operational Test and Evaluation; Defense, Department of : Inspector General; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense, Department of : Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Policy; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Defense, Department of : Under Secretary for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics; Defense, Department of : Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness; Defense, Department of Secretary; Delaware : President's visit; Democratic Party : Democratic Blue Dog Coalition; Democratic Party : Democratic National Committee; Denmark : President Obama's visit; Denmark : Prime Minister; Denmark : Prince Consort; Denmark : Queen; Denmark : U.S. Ambassador; Development banks and funds : African Development Bank; Development banks and funds : European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Development banks and funds : Inter-American Development Bank; Development banks and funds : International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Development, U.S. Agency for International; Disability, National Council on; Disaster assistance : Alabama; Disaster assistance : Alaska; Disaster assistance : American Samoa; Disaster assistance : Arkansas; Disaster assistance : Florida; Disaster assistance : Georgia; Disaster assistance : Illinois; Disaster assistance : Indiana; Disaster assistance : Iowa; Disaster assistance : Kansas; Disaster assistance : Kentucky; Disaster assistance : Louisiana; Disaster assistance : Maine; Disaster assistance : Minnesota; Disaster assistance : Mississippi; Disaster assistance : Missouri; Disaster assistance : Nebraska; Disaster assistance : New Jersey; Disaster assistance : New York; Disaster assistance : North Dakota; Disaster assistance : Oklahoma; Disaster assistance : Oregon; Disaster assistance : Puerto Rico; Disaster assistance : South Dakota; Disaster assistance : Tennessee; Disaster assistance : Virginia; Disaster assistance : Washington; Disaster assistance : West Virginia; Diseases : Global influenza outbreak; District of Columbia : Capital City Public Charter School; District of Columbia : Kenilworth Park and Aquatic Gardens; District of Columbia : Martha's Table, Inc.; District of Columbia : U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, shooting; District of Columbia : Walter Reed Army Medical Center; Dominican Republic : U.S. Ambassador; Drug Control Policy, Office of National : Deputy Director; Drug Control Policy, Office of National : Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs; Drug Control Policy, Office of National : Director; Earth Day; Economic Advisers, Council of; Economic Co-operation and Development, Organisation for (OECD); Economic Council, National; Economic Recovery Advisory Board, President’s; Economy, national : American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009; Economy, national : Financial legislation; Economy, national : Financial regulations, modernization efforts; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Ecuador : President; Education : Chief State School Officers, Council of; Education : Reform; Education, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education; Education, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs; Education, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services; Education, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education; Education, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Education, Department of : Education Sciences, Institute of; Education, Department of : General Counsel; Education, Department of : Inspector General; Education, Department of : Rehabilitation Services Administration; Education, Department of : Secretary; Education, Department of : Under Secretary; Egypt : President; Egypt : President Obama's visit; Egypt : Pyramids and the Sphinx, tour; Egypt : Sultan Hassan Mosque in Cairo; Egypt : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; El Salvador : President-elect; El Salvador : Relations with U.S.; El Salvador : U.S. Ambassador; Election Commission, Federal; Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Employment and unemployment : Working families, meeting with President; Energy : Energy legislation, proposed; Energy : National energy plan; Energy Agency, International; Energy, Department of : Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs; Energy, Department of : Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, Office of; Energy, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Energy, Department of : Energy Information Administration; Energy, Department of : Energy Regulatory Commission, Federal; Energy, Department of : General Counsel; Energy, Department of : Minority Economic Impact, Office of; Energy, Department of : Nuclear Security Administration, National; Energy, Department of : Science, Office of; Energy, Department of : Secretary; Energy, Department of : Under Secretary; Energy, Department of : Under Secretary for Nuclear Security; Energy, Department of : Under Secretary for Science; Enivronment : United Nations Climate Change Conference; Entertainment and Sports Programming Network (ESPN); Environment : Climate change; Environment : Environmental leaders, meeting with President; Environment : United Nations Climate Change Conference; Environmental Protection Agency : Administration and Resource Management, Office of; Environmental Protection Agency : Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation; Environmental Protection Agency : Assistant Administrator for International Affairs; Environmental Protection Agency : Assistant Administrator for Enforcement and Compliance Assurance; Environmental Protection Agency : Assistant Administrator for Water Programs; Environmental Protection Agency : Chief Financial Officer; Environmental Protection Agency : Deputy Administrator; Environmental Protection Agency : General Counsel; Environmental Protection Agency : Inspector General; Environmental Protection Agency : Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances, Office of; Environmental Protection Agency : Research and Development, Office of; Environmental Protection Agency : Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Office of; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Equatorial Guinea : U.S. Ambassador; Estonia : U.S. Ambassador; Ethiopia : Prime Minister; Ethiopia : U.S. Ambassador; Europe : European Union :: European Commission President; Europe : European Union :: Summit with U.S.; Europe : European Union :: U.S. Representative; Europe : World War II, 70th anniversary; Europe, Organization for Security and Co-operation in; Export-Import Bank of the U.S.; Export-Import Bank of the United States; Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, President's Advisory Council on; Farm Credit Administration; Federation Internationale de Football Association; Finland : U.S. Ambassador; Florida : DeSoto Next Generation Solar Energy Center in Arcadia; Florida : Disaster assistance; Florida : Governor; Florida : President’s visits; Florida : President's visits; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors, credentialing ceremony; FOX News Channel; FOX News television; France : D-Day, 65th anniversary; France : Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial; France : Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris; France : Pompidou Centre in Paris; France : President; France : President Obama's visit; France : President Obama's visits; France : U.S. Ambassador; Gabon : President; General Services Administration, U.S. : Administrator; Geological Survey, U.S. : Director; Georgia : Disaster assistance; Georgia, Republic of : U.S. Ambassador; Germany : Berlin Wall, 20th anniversary of fall of; Germany : Chancellor; Germany : Frauenkirche (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden; Germany : Landstuhl Regional Medical Center; Germany : Parliamentary elections; Germany : President Obama's visit; Germany : President Obama's visits; Germany : Relations with U.S.; Germany : U.S. Ambassador; Ghana : Cape Coast Castle in Cape Coast; Ghana : La General Hospital in Accra; Ghana : Oguaa Traditional Area, Omanhene, meeting with President Obama; Ghana : President; Ghana : President Obama's visit; Government organization and employees : Federal Service Impasses Panel; Government organization and employees : Securing Americans Value and Efficiency (SAVE) Award; Governors Association, National; Greece : Parliamentary elections; Greece : Prime Minister; Greece : Relations with U.S.; Grenada : Prime Minister; Group of Eight (G–8) nations ; Guinea : U.S. Ambassador; Habitat for Humanity International; Haiti : U.S. Ambassador; Halloween; Hanukkah; Hawaii : President's visit; Health and Human Servces, Department of : National Institutes of Health; Health and Human Services, Department of : Aging, Administration on; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Health; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Children and Families; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Resources and Technology; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislation; Health and Human Services, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs; Health and Human Services, Department of : Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Health and Human Services, Department of : Children, Youth, and Families, Administration on; Health and Human Services, Department of : Food and Drug Administration, U.S.; Health and Human Services, Department of : Health Resources and Services Administration :: Administrator; Health and Human Services, Department of : Indian Health Service; Health and Human Services, Department of : Institutes of Health, National; Health and Human Services, Department of : Native Americans, Administration for; Health and Human Services, Department of : Radiation and Worker Health, Advisory Board on; Health and Human Services, Department of : Secretary; Health and Human Services, Department of : Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; Health and Human Services, Department of : Surgeon General; Health and medical care : Cost control reforms; Helen Keller National Center; Holy See (Vatican City) : Father Damien, canonization; Holy See (Vatican City) : Pope Benedict XVI; Holy See (Vatican City) : President Obama's visit; Holy See (Vatican City) : Secretary of State; Holy See (Vatican City) : U.S. Ambassador; Homeland Security, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement; Homeland Security, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Policy; Homeland Security, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs ; Homeland Security, Department of : Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration; Homeland Security, Department of : Chief Medical Officer; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal ; Homeland Security, Department of : Federal Emergency Management Agency; Homeland Security, Department of : Secret Service, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Secretary; Homeland Security, Department of : U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services; Homeland Security, Department of : U.S. Customs and Border Protection; Homeland Security, Department of : Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis; Homeland Security, Department of : Under Secretary for Management; Homeland Security, Department of : Under Secretary for National Protection and Programs; Homeland Security, Department of : Under Secretary for Science and Technology; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Housing and Federal Housing Commissioner; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : General Counsel; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Government National Mortgage Association; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Secretary; Humanities, National Council on the; Humanities, National Endowment for the; Hungary : U.S. Ambassador; Iceland : U.S. Ambassador; Illinois : Archbishop of Chicago; Illinois : Caterpillar, Inc., visit; Illinois : Chicago :: 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games bid; Illinois : Disaster assistance; Illinois : President’s visits; Illinois : President's visit; Illinois : President's visits; Independence Day; India : Prime Minister; India : Relations with U.S.; India : U.S. Ambassador; Indiana : Disaster assistance; Indiana : President’s visits; Indiana : President's visits; Indonesia : Bombings in Jakarta; Indonesia : Earthquake, damage and recovery efforts; Indonesia : President; Indonesia : Relations with U.S.; Intelligence Advisory Board, President's; Intelligence, Office of the Director of National : Chief Information Officer; Intelligence, Office of the Director of National : General Counsel; Intelligence, Office of the Director of National : Principal Deputy National Intelligence Director; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife Parks; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Insular Areas; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Land and Mineral Management; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Policy Management and Budget; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Water and Science; Interior, Department of the : Bureau of Land Management; Interior, Department of the : Bureau of Reclamation :: Director; Interior, Department of the : Office of Fish and Wildlife Service; Interior, Department of the : Park Service, National :: Director; Interior, Department of the : Science Adviser to the Secretary; Interior, Department of the : Secretary; Interior, Department of the : Solicitor; Interior, Department of the : Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of; Iowa : Disaster assistance; Iowa : President's visits; Iowa : Trinity Structural Towers, Inc., in Newton; Iran : Nuclear weapons development; Iraq : Insurgency and terrorist attacks; Iraq : Multi-National Force—Iraq, commanding general; Iraq : President; Iraq : President Obama's visit; Iraq : Prime Minister; Iraq : Shootings at Camp Victory in Baghdad; Iraq : U.S. Ambassador; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Multi-National Force—Iraq, commanding general; Iraq : United Nations staff members, deaths in Baghdad in 2003; Ireland : Prime Minister; Ireland : U.S. Ambassador; Israel : President; Israel : Prime Minister; Italy : Earthquake in L'Aquila, damage and recovery efforts; Italy : President; Italy : President Obama's visit; Italy : Prime Minister; Italy : U.S. Ambassador; Japan : Democratic Party of Japan president; Japan : Elections; Japan : Emperor; Japan : Empress; Japan : President Obama's visit; Japan : Prime Minister; Japan : Relations with U.S.; Japan : U.S. Ambassador; Japan : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Jordan : King; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and confirmations; Judiciary : Supreme Court : Associate Justice, health; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice, retirement; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice-designate; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Chief Justice; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Policy; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Legislative Affairs; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General of the Tax Division; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General of the Environment and Natural Resources Division; Justice, Department of : Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Bureau of Investigation, Federal; Justice, Department of : Bureau of Justice Statistics; Justice, Department of : Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S.; Justice, Department of : Investigation, Federal Bureau of (FBI); Justice, Department of : Joint Terrorism Task Forces; Justice, Department of : National Institute of Justice; Justice, Department of : Parole Commission, U.S.; Justice, Department of : U.S. attorneys; Justice, Department of : Victims of Crime, Office for; Justice, Department of : Violence Against Women, Office on; Kansas : Disaster assistance; Kentucky : Disaster assistance; Kentucky : Governor; Kentucky : Winter storm, damage and recovery efforts; Kosovo : U.S. Ambassador; Kuwait : Amir; Labor Relations Authority, Federal; Labor Relations Board, National; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Disability Employment Policy; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training Administration; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Policy; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; Labor, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Veterans Employment and Training; Labor, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Labor, Department of : Solicitor; Labor, Department of : Wage and Hour Division; Labor, Department of : Women's Bureau; Latvia : U.S. Ambassador; Lebanon : President; Legal Services Corporation; Legion, American; Legislation, enacted : Bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the Women Airforce Service Pilots ("WASP"); Legislation, enacted : Girl Scouts USA Centennial Commemorative Coin Act; Legislation, enacted : Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009; Legislation, enacted : Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009; Legislation, enacted : To provide for the award of a gold medal on behalf of Congress to Arnold Palmer; Legislation, proposed : "The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act"; Lichtenstein : U.S. Ambassador; Lithuania : President; Lithuania : U.S. Ambassador; Louisiana : Disaster assistance; Louisiana : New Orleans :: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Charter School; Louisiana : New Orleans :: Rebuilding efforts; Louisiana : New Orleans :: University of New Orleans; Louisiana : President's visit; Luxembourg : U.S. Ambassador; Maine : Disaster assistance; Make-A-Wish Foundation; Malaysia : Prime Minister; Maldives : U.S. Ambassador; Malta : U.S. Ambassador; Management and Budget, Office of : Federal Financial Management, Office of; Management and Budget, Office of : Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of ; Management and Budget, Office of : Procurement Policy, Federal Administrator for; Management and Budget, Office of : U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator; Maritime Commission, Federal; Marshal Service, U.S.; Marshall Islands : U.S. Ambassador; Marshals Service, U.S.; Maryland : Metropolitan Archives in Landover; Maryland : National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda; Maryland : President’s visits; Maryland : President's visits; Maryland : Sidwell Friends School in Bethesda; Massachusetts : Harvard University professor, arrest; Massachusetts : Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge; Massachusetts : President's visit; Massachusetts : President's visits; Massachusetts : U.S. Senator, death; Mauritius : U.S. Ambassador; Medal of Honor Day, National; Mediation and Conciliation Service, Federal; Mediation Board, National; Medical Association, American; Memorial Day; Merit Systems Protection Board, U.S.; Mexico : Counternarcotics efforts, cooperation with Canada; Mexico : Counternarcotics efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Mexico : President; Mexico : President Obama's visit; Mexico : President Obama's visits; Mexico : U.S. Ambassador; Mexico : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Michigan : Governor; Michigan : President's visit; Michigan : U.S. Representative; Michigan : Warren, local elected officials, meeting with President; Micronesia : U.S. Ambassador; Middle East : U.S. Special Envoy; Middle East : U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace; Millennium Challenge Corporation; Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, Federal; Minnesota : Disaster assistance; Minnesota : Floods, damage and recovery efforts; Minnesota : President's visit; Mississippi : Disaster assistance; Missouri : Disaster assistance; Missouri : Governor; Missouri : President's visit; Missouri : President's visits; Missouri : Winter storm, damage and recovery efforts; Monetary Fund, International; Mongolia : President; Mongolia : U.S. Ambassador; Montana : President's visit; Montana : Yellowstone National Park; Morocco : U.S. Ambassador; Mozambique : U.S. Ambassador; Natural disasters : Australia, wildfires; Natural disasters : Indonesia, earthquake; Natural disasters : Italy, earthquake; Natural disasters : Midwest and Southern winter storm; Natural disasters : Minnesota and North Dakota, floods; Natural disasters : Oklahoma, tornadoes; Navy, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Management and Comptroller; Navy, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Installations and Environment; Navy, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs; Navy, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Research, Development and Acquisition; Navy, Department of the : General Counsel; Navy, Department of the : Marine Corps, U.S.; Navy, Department of the : National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD; Navy, Department of the : Secretary; Navy, Department of the : Under Secretary; NBC News; Nebraska : Disaster assistance; Nepal : U.S. Ambassador; Netherlands : Crown Prince; Netherlands : Prime Minister; Netherlands : U.S. Ambassador; Nevada : President's visits; New Hampshire : President's visit; New Jersey : Disaster assistance; New Jersey : Governor-elect; New Jersey : President's visit; New Jersey : President's visits; New Mexico : President's visit; New Year's holiday; New York : Counterterrorism efforts; New York : Democratic Party event; New York : Democratic Party events; New York : Disaster assistance; New York : Hudson Valley Community College in Troy; New York : New York City :: Mayor; New York : New York Times; New York : New York Times Magazine; New York : President's visits; New York : U.S. Military Academy at West Point; New York : U.S. Senator, appointment; New Zealand : Prime Minister; New Zealand : U.S. Ambassador; Newsweek magazine; Niger : U.S. Ambassador; North Atlantic Council; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; North Carolina : President's visits; North Carolina : Victory Junction Gang Camp in Randleman; North Dakota : Disaster assistance; North Dakota : Floods, damage and recovery efforts; North Korea : Ballistic missiles, testing; North Korea : Nuclear weapons development; North Korea : Release of detained American citizens; North Korea : U.S. Special Representative for North Korea Policy; Northern Border Regional Commission; Norway : King; Norway : President Obama's visit; Norway : Prime Minister; Norway : Queen; Norway : U.S. Ambassador; Norway : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U.S.; Nurses Association, American; Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission; Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission : Chairman; Ohio : Cleveland Clinic, tour; Ohio : President's visits; Oklahoma : Disaster assistance; Oklahoma : Governor; Oklahoma : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Oklahoma : U.S. Senators; Olympic Committee, International; Oman : U.S. Ambassador; Oregon : Disaster assistance; Overseas Private Investment Corporation; Pakistan : Friends of Democratic Pakistan Summit; Pakistan : President; Pakistan : Terrorism; Palestinian Authority : President; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : President; Papua New Guinea : U.S. Ambassador; Passover; PBS, "PBS NewsHour" program; PBS, "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" program; Peace Corps; Peace Corps, U.S.; Pennsylvania : Allentown :: Allentown Metal Works, Inc.; Pennsylvania : Allentown :: Business and government leaders, meeting with President; Pennsylvania : Allentown :: Nestle Purina PetCare Company plant; Pennsylvania : Allentown :: Pennsylvania CareerLink of Lehigh Valley; Pennsylvania : President's visits; Pennsylvania : U.S. Senator, decision to switch political parties; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; Personnel Management, Office of : Deputy Director; Personnel Management, Office of : Director; Peru : President; Philippines : President; Philippines : U.S. Ambassador; Poland : Prime Minister; Poland : U.S. Ambassador; Portugal : U.S. Ambassador; Postal Regulatory Commission; Postal Service, U.S.; Potential natural disasters, preparedness efforts; Presidency, U.S. : Agenda; Presidency, U.S. : Former President Bill Clinton, meeting with President; Presidency, U.S. : Former President Bill Clinton, meetings with President; Presidency, U.S. : Former President George W. Bush; Presidency, U.S. : Inauguration :: Inaugural events; Presidency, U.S. : Inauguration :: Parade; Presidency, U.S. : Inauguration :: Swearing-in and address; Presidency, U.S. : Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission; Public Broadcasting, Corporation for; Public Radio, National; Puerto Rico : Disaster assistance; Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board; Religious leaders : Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch, meeting with President; Religious leaders : Conference call with President; Reserve System, Federal; Roman Catholic Church : Catholic Bishops, U.S. Conference of; Romania : U.S. Ambassador; Russia : President; Russia : President Obama's visit; Russia : Prime Minister; Russia : Relations with U.S.; Russia : Russian Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Moscow, wreath-laying ceremony; Russia : Soviet Union, former President; Russia : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President; Samoa : U.S. Ambassador; Samoa, American : Disaster assistance; San Marino : U.S. Ambassador; Saudi Arabia : King; Saudi Arabia : President Obama's visit; Saudi Arabia : U.S. Ambassador; Science and technology : Intel Science Talent Search; Science and Technology Policy, Office of : Associate Director of Environment; Securities Investor Protection Corporation; Security Council, National; Selective Service System; Sentencing Commission, U.S.; Serbia : U.S. Ambassador; Seychelles : U.S. Ambassador; Singapore : President Obama's visit; Singapore : Prime Minister; Singapore : U.S. Ambassador; Singapore : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Small Business Administration : Chief Counsel; Small Business Administration : Deputy Administrator; Small Business Administration : Inspector General; Smithsonian Institution : John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; Social Security Administration : Deputy Commissioner of Social Security; Social Security Administration : Social Security Trust Funds; Solomon Islands : U.S. Ambassador; Somalia : Commercial vessel hostage, rescue; South Africa : President; South Africa : President-elect; South Africa : U.S. Ambassador; South Dakota : Disaster assistance; South Dakota : Governor; South Korea : Former President; South Korea : Former President, death; South Korea : President; South Korea : President Obama's visit; South Korea : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; Southern States Energy Board; Space program : Aeronautics and Space Administration, National; Space program : Aeronautics and Space Administration, National ; Space program : Hubble Space Telescope; Space program : Shuttle; Spain : King; Spain : President; Spain : Prime Minister; Spain : Relations with U.S.; Spain : U.S. Ambassador; Sports : 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games; Sports : Baseball; Sports : Basketball; Sports : Football; Sports : Golf; Sports : Hockey; Sports : Soccer; Sri Lanka : U.S. Ambassador; State Justice Institute; State, Department of : Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues; State, Department of : Ambassador-at-Large to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for African Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for International Organizations; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Population, Refugees, and Migration; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for South Asian Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Intelligence and Research; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Verification and Compliance; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary of Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs; State, Department of : Chief of Protocol; State, Department of : Counterterrorism, Coordinator for; State, Department of : Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Communications and Information Policy; State, Department of : Foreign Service :: Director General; State, Department of : Global AIDS Coordinator; State, Department of : Legal Advisor; State, Department of : Secretary; State, Department of : Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights Issues; State, Department of : Threat Reduction Programs, Coordinator for; State, Department of : U.S. Coordinator for International Communications and Information Policy; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Economic, Energy, and Agricultural Affairs; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Global Affairs; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs; State, Department of : War Crimes Issues, Ambassador at Large for; Steve Harvey Morning Show, The; Sudan : Darfur, conflict and human rights crisis; Sudan : U.S. Special Envoy; Suriname : U.S. Ambassador; Swaziland : U.S. Ambassador; Sweden : U.S. Ambassador; Switzerland : Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, Chief of the; Switzerland : U.S. Ambassador; Tajikistan : U.S. Ambassador; Tanzania : President; Tanzania : U.S. Ambassador; Tennessee : Disaster assistance; Tennessee Valley Authority; Terrorism : Counterterrorism Center, National; Terrorism : Counterterrorism efforts; Terrorism : December 25 explosive device incident on Northwest Airlines Flight 253; Terrorism : September 11, 2001, attacks; Terrorism : Terrorist watch lists, procedural review; Terrorism : USS Cole attack; Texas : Fort Hood , shooting; Texas : Fort Hood, shooting; Texas : President's visit; Texas : President's visits; Thailand : Prime Minister; Thanksgiving Day; Tom Joyner Morning Show, The; Trade and Development Agency, U.S.; Trade Commission, Federal; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : Chief Agricultural Negotiator; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : Deputy U.S. Trade Representative; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : Deputy U.S. Trade Representative - Geneva Office of the U.S. Trade Representative; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S. : U.S. Trade Representative; Transportation Safety Board, National; Transportation, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs; Transportation, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy; Transportation, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs; Transportation, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs; Transportation, Department of : Aviation Administration, Federal; Transportation, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Transportation, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Transportation, Department of : General Counsel; Transportation, Department of : Highway Administration, Federal; Transportation, Department of : Highway Traffic Safety Administration, National; Transportation, Department of : Maritime Administration; Transportation, Department of : Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Federal; Transportation, Department of : Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration; Transportation, Department of : Railroad Administration, Federal :: Administrator; Transportation, Department of : Research and Innovative Technology Administration; Transportation, Department of : Secretary; Transportation, Department of : Surface Transportation Board; Transportation, Department of : Transit Administration, Federal; Transportation, Department of : Under Secretary of Transportation Policy; Treasury, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant General Counsel; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for International Finance; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for International Markets and Development; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Management; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing; Treasury, Department of the : Chief Financial Officer; Treasury, Department of the : Chief Performance Officer; Treasury, Department of the : Counselor to the Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Deputy Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : General Counsel; Treasury, Department of the : Internal Revenue Service; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : U.S. Treasurer; Treasury, Department of the : Under Secretary for Domestic Finance; Treasury, Department of the : Under Secretary for International Affairs; Trinidad and Tobago : President Obama's visit; Trinidad and Tobago : Prime Minister; Trinidad and Tobago : U.S. Ambassador; Tunisia : U.S. Ambassador; Turkey : Armenian Church in Turkey; Turkey : Blue Mosque in Istanbul; Turkey : Chief Rabbi of Istanbul; Turkey : Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople; Turkey : Grand Mufti of Istanbul; Turkey : Hagia Sophia in Istanbul; Turkey : Minister of Foreign Affairs; Turkey : Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's tomb in Ankara; Turkey : President; Turkey : President Obama's visit; Turkey : Prime Minister; Turkey : Relations with Armenia; Turkey : Syriac Orthodox Archbishop of Istanbul and Ankara; Uganda : U.S. Ambassador; Ukraine : U.S. Ambassador; United Arab Emirates : Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi; United Jewish Communities (the Jewish Federations of North America); United Kingdom : Afghanistan :: British military forces, deployment; United Kingdom : Conservative Party Leader; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: Deputy First Minister; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: First Minister; United Kingdom : President Obama's visit; United Kingdom : Prime Minister; United Kingdom : U.S. Ambassador; United Kingdom : U.S. Embassy staff, meeting with President Obama; United Nations : Climate Change Conference; United Nations : Conference on Disarmament; United Nations : Deputy Permanent U.S. Representative; United Nations : Economic and Social Council; United Nations : Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); United Nations : Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; United Nations : General Assembly; United Nations : Heads of state, meeting with President Obama; United Nations : Human Rights Council; United Nations : Iraq, staff members, deaths in Baghdad in 2003 ; United Nations : Messenger of Peace; United Nations : Peacekeeping forces, leaders of contributing countries, meeting with President Obama; United Nations : Secretary-General; United Nations : U.S. Alternate Representative for Special Political Affairs; United Nations : U.S. Representative for U.N. Management and Reform; United Nations : U.S. Representative to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva; United Nations : Vienna Office of the United Nations, U.S. Representative; Univision; Uruguay : U.S. Ambassador; Utah : Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints leaders, meeting with President; Vanuatu : U.S. Ambassador; Vermont : Governor; Veterans : Veterans' service organizations and veterans, meeting with President; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Operations, Security and Preparedness; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Human Resources; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Legislative Affairs; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary of Policy and Planning; Veterans Affairs, Department of : General Counsel; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Secretary; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Under Secretary for Health; Veterans Day; Virginia : Arlington National Cemetery; Virginia : Counterterrorism Center, National, in McLean; Virginia : Disaster assistance; Virginia : Fairfax County Parkway Extension project, tour; Virginia : Governor-elect; Virginia : Gubernatorial Democratic primary election; Virginia : President’s visits; Virginia : President's visits; Virginia : Ray's Hell-Burger in Arlington; Virginia : Year Up center in Arlington; Voluntarism; Washington : Disaster assistance; Washington : Governor; West Virginia : Disaster assistance; Western Hemisphere : Americas, Summit of the; Western Hemisphere : Caribbean Community (CARICOM); Western Hemisphere : Organization of American States; White House Fellows, Presidential Commission on; White House Fellowships, President's Commission on; White House Office : AIDS Policy, Office of National, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Native American Affairs, Senior Policy Adviser for; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Press Secretary; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Senior Counselor for Manufacturing Policy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Urban Affairs; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: White House Trip Director; White House Office : Associate Counsel to the President; White House Office : Associate Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs; White House Office : Deputy Associate Counsel to the President; White House Office : Deputy Counsel to the President for National Security Affairs; White House Office : Deputy Counsel to the President for Economic Policy; White House Office : Environmental Quality, Office of; White House Office : Federal Chief Information Officer; White House Office : Intergovernmental Affairs, Office of; White House Office : Press Secretary; White House Office : Principal Deputy Counsel to the President; White House Office : Science and Technology Policy, Office of; White House Office : Special Counsel to the President for Ethics and Government Reform; White House Office : Special Representative to the President; White House Office : Urban Affairs, White House Director of; White House Office : Vice President; White House Office : Vice President ; White House Office : White House Counsel; White House Office : White House Military Office, Director; White House Office : White House staff members, meeting with President; Wisconsin : Governor; Wisconsin : Grassroots activists, meeting; Wisconsin : Green Bay political leaders, meeting; Wisconsin : President's visit; World Bank; World Trade Organization; World Trade Organization (WTO); Wyoming : President's visit; Wyoming : Yellowstone National Park; Zimbabwe : Prime Minister; Zimbabwe : U.S. Ambassador. 