Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 45 Issue 2 (Monday, January 19, 2009)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 45, Number 2 (Monday, January 19, 2009)]
[Pages 91-92]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Designation of Officers To Act as President of the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation

January 16, 2009

Memorandum for the President of the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation

Subject: Designation of Officers to Act as President of the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation

    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and 
the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal 
Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., it is hereby 
ordered that:
    Section 1. Order of Succession.Subject to the provisions of section 
2 of this memorandum, the following officials of the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation, in the order listed, shall act as and perform 
the functions and duties of the office of the President of the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation (POPIC), during any period in which the 
POPIC has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the 
functions and duties of the office of POPIC, until such time as the 
POPIC is able to perform the functions and duties of that office:
(a)          Executive Vice President;
(b)          Vice President and General Counsel;
(c)          Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
(d)          Deputy General Counsel; and
(e)          Director of Operations.
    Sec. 2. Exceptions.
    (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 in 
an acting capacity, by virtue of so serving, shall act as POPIC pursuant 
to this memorandum.
    (b) No individual listed in section 1 shall act as POPIC unless that 
individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Federal Vacancies 
Reform Act of 1998.
    (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the President 
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this 
memorandum in designating an acting POPIC.
    Sec. 3. This memorandum is intended to improve the internal 
management of the executive branch and is not intended to, and does not, 
create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at 
law or in equity by any party against the United States, it agencies, 
instrumentalities, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or 
any other person.
    Sec. 4. You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum 
in the Federal Register.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:45 a.m., January 21, 
2009]

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on January 16, and it will be published in the Federal Register on 
January 22.

[[Page 92]]