Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 19 (Monday, May 16, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 19 (Monday, May 16, 1994)]
[Pages 1014-1015]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Executive Order 12914--Prohibiting Certain Transactions With Respect to 
Haiti

May 7, 1994

     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and 
the laws of the United States of America, including the International 
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National 
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 5 of the United 
Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c), and 
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in view of United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 917 of May 6, 1994, and in order to take 
additional steps with respect to the actions and policies of the de 
facto regime in Haiti and the national emergency described and declared 
in Executive Order No. 12775, it is hereby ordered as follows:
    Section 1. Except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, 
directives, or licenses, which may hereafter be issued pursuant to this 
order, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations 
conferred or imposed by any international agreement or any contract 
entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date 
of this order, all funds and financial resources of: (a) all officers of 
the Haitian military, including the police, and their immediate 
families;
    (b) the major participants in the coup d'etat in Haiti of 1991 and 
in the illegal governments since the coup d'etat, and their immediate 
families; and
    (c) those employed by or acting on behalf of the Haitian military, 
and their immediate families; that are or hereafter come within the 
United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or 
control of United States persons, including their overseas branches, are 
blocked.

    Sec. 2. The following are prohibited, notwithstanding the existence 
of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international 
agreement or any contract entered into or any license or permit granted 
before the effective date of this order, except to the extent provided 
in regulations, orders, directives, authorizations, or licenses that may 
hereafter be issued pursuant to this order: (a) the granting of 
permission to any aircraft to take off from, land in, or overfly the 
territory of the United States, if the aircraft, as part of the same 
flight or as a continuation of that flight, is destined to land in or 
has taken off from the territory of Haiti, with the exception of 
regularly scheduled commercial passenger flights; (b) any transaction by 
any United States person that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of 
evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set 
forth in this order.

    Sec. 3. The definitions contained in section 3 of Executive Order 
No. 12779 apply to the terms used in this order.

    Sec. 4. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including 
the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers 
granted to me by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the 
United Nations Participation Act, as may be necessary to carry out the 
purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any 
of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States 
Government. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby 
directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to 
carry out the provisions of this order, including suspension or 
termination of licenses or other authorizations in effect as of the 
effective date of this order.

    Sec. 5. Nothing contained in this order shall create any right or 
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the 
United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, its officers or 
employees, or any other person.

[[Page 1015]]

    Sec. 6.
    (a) This order shall take effect at 11:59 p.m., eastern daylight 
time on May 8, 1994.
    (b) This order shall be transmitted to the Congress and published in 
the Federal Register.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
May 7, 1994.

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:21 p.m., May 9, 1994]

Note: This Executive order was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 9, and it was published in the Federal Register on May 
10.