Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 43 (Monday, October 31, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 43 (Monday, October 31, 1994)]
[Pages 2187-2188]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Receiving the Mubarak Medal in Kuwait City, Kuwait

October 28, 1994

    First, let me thank you, Royal Highness, and the people of Kuwait 
for this high honor. Mubarak the Great, your grandfather and the modern-
day founder of this proud nation, symbolizes the determination to defend 
your independence against all aggression.
    I accept your honor on behalf of all the American people and 
especially the men and women of our Armed Forces. They are the strength 
behind our commitment to Kuwait and to peace and security in the entire 
Gulf region. They are the steel in our determination never again to 
allow Iraq to threaten its neighbors. They have stood shoulder to 
shoulder with your men in arms and once again have said no to aggression 
and yes to peace.
    As the men and women of our Armed Forces work to make peace in the 
Gulf, far-sighted leaders are making peace elsewhere in the Middle East. 
I am encouraged by the effort of Arabs and Israelis to live together in 
peace. As Jordan and Israel have demonstrated, a peace for the 
generations is now before us.
    I want to thank Kuwait especially for the important contribution you 
have made to the peace process. By helping lead the way to end the 
boycott of Israel, Kuwait is saying, let us close the door on the past 
and open

[[Page 2188]]

a new page to the future, a future of peaceful coexistence and 
prosperous commerce for all the people in this region.
    Your Royal Highness, the United States stands with those who seek to 
ensure the triumph of hope over fear. It was just a few years ago that 
President Bush sent our troops here to defend your very existence. Since 
that time our friendship has grown and our military cooperation has 
increased.
    Our determination is clear: Kuwait shall remain free. And the United 
States and Kuwait will remain partners into the future.
    I thank you again.

Note: The President spoke at approximately 7 p.m. in Bayan Palace. In 
his remarks, he referred to Amir Jabir Sabah of Kuwait. A tape was not 
available for verification of the content of these remarks.