Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 40 (Monday, October 10, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 40 (Monday, October 10, 1994)]
[Page 1956]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Senate Action on the ``Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act''

October 5, 1994

    I am gratified by the broad bipartisan support in the Senate for 
final passage of the ``Elementary and Secondary Education Act'' (ESEA). 
This act is good news for students, teachers, families, and communities 
across our country. It represents a commitment to world-class standards 
of academic achievements for all students and to adequate preparation 
for every teacher. It brings added help to the schools that need it the 
most and offers new flexibility to States and local communities. It 
reinforces our national commitment to schools that are safe and drug-
free and that offer young people a disciplined environment for learning. 
It encourages parental involvement in the education of their children. 
And it puts the Federal Government squarely on the side of public school 
choice, innovative charter schools, and character education.
    Final passage of the ESEA is the capstone of 2 years of efforts to 
improve the entire system of lifelong learning. In an economy in which, 
more and more, what we earn depends upon what we learn, these efforts 
are the key to our future. Head Start reform, national goals for 
elementary and secondary education, new bridges between schools and 
workplaces, national and community service that allows citizens to help 
their country while expanding educational opportunity, loan reform that 
lowers costs and allows students to repay their debts as a percentage of 
income over time--these reforms mean increased opportunity, a more 
productive economy, and a more inclusive society. Future generations 
will look back on this period as years of historic accomplishment that 
began the task of renewing our Nation by investing in our people.