Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 18 (Monday, May 9, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 18 (Monday, May 9, 1994)]
[Pages 1001-1002]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6683--Mother's Day, 1994

May 5, 1994

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    With the signing of the first Mother's Day Proclamation 80 years 
ago, President Woodrow Wilson set aside the second Sunday in May as a 
special time to pay tribute to America's mothers. This year I join with 
Americans across this great land on May 8, 1994, to honor our mothers 
with the appreciation and affection they so richly deserve.
    Indisputably, the role of mothers has changed greatly in the last 
half-century. They are bread makers and breadwinners, heads of 
households and heads of state, caretakers of elderly parents and of 
newborn infants. They are also volunteers in our communities, schools, 
and religious organizations. Mothers find time to inspire and challenge 
their children to dream big dreams and to do good deeds. They provide 
encouragement to their children to reach for the stars and to strive for 
excellence. When our mothers succeed, our children succeed. When 
children succeed, our Nation's future is assured.
    Mothers are not only our life-givers, but they are also our 
nurturers who sustain us with deep and unconditional love. In a world of 
constant change, they establish a reliable foundation of unchanging 
values. By instilling strong moral principles and showing concern for 
social improvement and well-being,

[[Page 1002]]

mothers have used their talents, ideals, and energies to shape our 
families, communities, and Nation. For their abiding devotion, love, 
patience, and loyalty, mothers, whether biological, foster, or adoptive, 
hold an enduring place in our hearts. They are anchors of their American 
families--our Nation's most important source of strength. My own 
mother's courage and determination profoundly influenced me in so many 
ways, and she will always remain a guiding force throughout my life.
    Mother's Day gives us time to pause and reflect on the manner in 
which mothers contribute to their families and the Nation through their 
hard work, dedication, and daily sacrifices. We can best observe 
Mother's Day by expressing our thanks and our gratitude for the 
blessings and bounties that motherhood holds.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, May 8, 1994, as ``Mother's 
Day.'' I urge all Americans to express their love and respect for their 
mothers and to consider how much they have contributed to the well-being 
of our country. I call upon all citizens to observe this day with 
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:21 a.m., May 6, 1994]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 6, and it was published in the Federal Register on May 
9.