Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 38 (Monday, September 26, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 38 (Monday, September 26, 1994)]
[Pages 1808-1809]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Appointment for Members of the President's Committee on the Arts and 
Humanities

September 19, 1994

    The President today announced he is revitalizing the President's 
Committee on the Arts and the Humanities and intends to name Dr. John 
Brademas to chair the Committee. The President also announced his 
intention to name 32 private citizens to serve as members of the 
Committee, and he announced that First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton will 
serve as Honorary Chair.
    In making these appointments the President said, ``The Federal, 
State, and local governments together provide only a small percentage of 
the support essential to our cultural life. These appointments 
underscore the vital partnership between the government and the private 
citizens who do so

[[Page 1809]]

much to enrich and preserve the arts and humanities in our country. I am 
pleased that John Brademas, who has been a vigorous champion of learning 
and culture both in Congress and as a university president, has agreed 
to chair the Committee. At a time when our society faces new and 
profound challenges, when we are losing so many of our children, and 
when so many people feel insecure in the face of change, the arts and 
the humanities are fundamental to our lives as individuals and as a 
nation.''

Note: The following individuals were appointed to the committee: Peggy 
Cooper Cafritz, vice chair; Cynthia Perrin Schneider, vice chair; Terry 
Semel, vice chair; Susan Barnes-Gelt; Lerone Bennett, Jr.; Madeleine 
Harris Berman; Curt Bradbury; John H. Bryan; Hilario Candela; Anne Cox 
Chambers; Margaret Corbett Daley; Everett Fly; David P. Gardner; Harvey 
Golub; Richard S. Gurin; Irene Y. Hirano; David Henry Hwang; William 
Ivey; Quincy Jones; Robert Menschel; Rita Moreno; Jaroslav Pelikan; 
Anthony Podesta; Phyllis Rosen; Ann Sheffer; Isaac Stern; Dave Warren; 
Shirley Wilhite; Harold Williams; Emily Malino; and Timothy Wirth. 
Biographies of the appointees were made available by the Office of the 
Press Secretary.