Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 20 (Monday, May 23, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 20 (Monday, May 23, 1994)]
[Pages 1115-1116]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6691--National Trauma Awareness Month, 1994

May 18, 1994

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    All of us are potential victims of physical trauma. Even though we 
may lead relatively calm and safe lives, we can never fully escape the 
risks of traumatic injury. Each year, no fewer than 150,000 Americans 
die as a result of massive damage to skin or to internal organs, 
providing a sobering reminder that we must renew our efforts to create a 
healthier and safer society.
    While traumatic physical injury threatens all of us, young children 
are at particularly high risk for its tragic effects. In fact, six times 
as many children are killed by traumatic incidence than by cancer. No 
matter who falls victim, trauma exacts a tremendous toll.
    In addition to the vast physical and emotional suffering that occur, 
trauma also causes staggering economic losses. This year alone, 
Americans will spend more than $175 billion for the health care costs 
and loss of productivity associated with trauma.
    We now consider trauma to be among the most neglected medical 
conditions in our country, and it is vital that we take steps to 
diminish its terrible damage.
    Fortunately, we can substantially reduce the threat and the impact 
of traumatic injury through a concerted campaign of prevention and of 
improvement in care. By using established safety procedures in our homes 
and at work and by teaching basic safety to our children, we can 
significantly lower the number of traumatic accidents that occur each 
year. We can also help prevent many of the fatalities associated with 
trauma by learning how to properly treat its victims. By rededicating 
ourselves to understanding life-threatening trauma and by making the 
most effective uses of emergency medical services, we can all contribute 
to creating a healthier society.
    The Congress, by Public Law 103-39, has designated May 1994 as 
``National Trauma Awareness Month,'' and has authorized and requested 
the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of May 1994 as National 
Trauma Awareness Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month 
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day 
of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of 
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:10 p.m., May 19, 1994]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 19, and it was published in the Federal Register on May 
23.

[[Page 1116]]