Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 10 (Monday, March 14, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 10 (Monday, March 14, 1994)]
[Page 445]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Exchange With Reporters Prior to Discussions With Chairman Eduard 
Shevardnadze of the Republic of Georgia

March 7, 1994

Whitewater Investigation

    Q. Mr. President, can you tell us whether you or the First Lady were 
ever briefed after those meetings that have now been brought under 
question by the special counsel?
    The President. I'm going to have a question-and-answer session after 
Chairman Shevardnadze and I have our meeting, and I'll be glad to answer 
some questions then.
    Q. Would you answer that question later for us?
    The President. I'll be glad to answer questions, yes.

Republic of Georgia

    Q. What can you tell us about your meeting today with Mr. 
Shevardnadze? Are you able to offer more help? Are you concerned about 
recent developments in Russia and what threat they may provide to his 
country?
    The President. Well, the United States has strongly supported 
Chairman Shevardnadze and the territorial integrity of Georgia. We've 
done our best to be good allies, and last year we tried to help with aid 
and we will do so again this year.
    We want to talk a little about what can be done to help with 
peacekeeping efforts there and about other matters that affect their 
destiny in Georgia, including, obviously, events in Russia and other 
countries in the region. So I've really looked forward to this meeting 
for a long time. And I have many questions; I'm going to be listening 
hard today.
    Q. [Inaudible]--U.N. troops there? U.N. troops to Georgia?
    The President. Well, we want to talk about that today. We're going 
to have a visit about that.

Note: The exchange began at 12:05 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. A tape was not available for verification of the content of this 
exchange.