Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 20 (Monday, May 23, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 20 (Monday, May 23, 1994)]
[Pages 1114-1115]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement by the Press Secretary on Draft Registration and the Selective 
Service System

May 18, 1994

    The President has announced that he has approved a National Security 
Council recommendation to maintain peacetime draft registration and the 
Selective Service System (SSS).
    In letters to the House and Senate, President Clinton stated that 
``. . . it is essential to our national security to continue draft 
registration and the Selective Service System. While tangible military 
requirements alone do not currently make a mass call-up of American 
young men likely, there are three reasons I believe we should maintain 
both the SSS and the draft registration requirement.''
    First, the President stated that the SSS and registration provide 
``. . . a hedge against unforeseen threats and a relatively low cost 
`insurance policy' against our underestimat- 

[[Page 1115]]

ing the maximum level of threat we expect our Armed Forces to face.''
    Next, ``. . . terminating the SSS and draft registration now could 
send the wrong signal to our potential enemies who are watching for 
signs of U.S. resolve.''
    And finally, ``. . . as fewer and fewer members of our society have 
direct military experience, it is increasingly important to maintain the 
link between the All Volunteer Force and our society at large. The Armed 
Forces must also know that the general population stands behind them, 
committed to serve, should the preservation of our national security so 
require.''
    The NSC review leading to the President's decision has been 
conducted since January and consisted of representatives from the Office 
of the Secretary of Defense, the DOD Inspector General, the Joint Staff, 
the Corporation for National and Community Service, the Office of 
Management and Budget, and the Selective Service System.
    President Clinton urged Congress to support the Administration 
Fiscal Year 1995 request for $23 million for the Selective Service 
System.