Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 12 (Monday, March 28, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 12 (Monday, March 28, 1994)]
[Pages 624-625]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6658--Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A., 1994

March 23, 1994

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    America's success in the years to come requires a national 
commitment to providing excellence in education. Our ability to seize 
the opportunities before us depends on the strength of our scholarship. 
We must build an educational system that offers our country's vast 
promise to every citizen. Only when we know that all of our students are 
receiving the best care and training possible can we say that we are 
prepared for the challenges of the future.
    New innovations in teaching methods and curricula, combined with 
traditional lessons of ethics and morality, afford students a 
comprehensive education that will serve them well their entire lives. By 
sharing our experiences and our beliefs with the next generation of 
Americans, we can prepare our Nation for the awesome responsibilities 
and opportunities that lie ahead.
    Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the leader of the Lubavitch 
movement, has contributed a great deal to this important endeavor, 
advancing the ideals of sharing and education over the course of his 
long and rich life. As Rabbi Schneerson celebrates his 92nd birthday, it 
is fitting and appropriate

[[Page 625]]

that the people of the United States honor his gifts to education and 
rededicate themselves to the teaching of ethics and morality.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 23, 
1994, as Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A. I call upon the people of the 
United States, Government officials, educators, and volunteers to 
observe the day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third 
day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 2:40 p.m., March 24, 
1994]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on March 
28.