Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 26 (Monday, July 4, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 26 (Monday, July 4, 1994)]
[Page 1359]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Address to the People of the Baltic Nations

June 27, 1994

    On July 6th, I will be coming to Riga. On that day, I will have the 
great honor of being the first American President to visit the Baltic 
nations. The honor will be even greater because now Estonia, Latvia, and 
Lithuania are free democracies once again.
    In recent years, the United States observed every June 14th as 
Baltic Freedom Day, a day that reminded all Americans of the courage and 
determination of the Baltic peoples in your struggle against Soviet 
occupation. The American people never recognized that occupation, and we 
rejoiced with you in August 1991, when your three countries were reborn 
as independent, sovereign states. We have worked with you to achieve the 
early and complete withdrawal of foreign troops from your soil. And we 
look forward to rejoicing with you again this year when the final 
soldier has departed.
    When I come to Riga, I will meet with President Ulmanis, President 
Merry, and President Brazauskas. Together we will discuss how America 
can work with the Baltic countries to help bolster your security and 
prosperity into the next century. One of the most important moments of 
my trip will come when I speak at an outdoor gathering in Riga to the 
people of all the Baltic countries. I invite all who can to come and 
join me for that historic occasion.
    I look forward to meeting the people of your countries in a few 
weeks. And until then, let me leave you with three wishes: Long live the 
Republic of Estonia! Long live the Republic of Latvia! And long live the 
Republic of Lithuania!

Note: The address was videotaped on June 22 at approximately 6:30 p.m. 
in the Library at the White House and released by the Office of the 
Press Secretary on June 27. A tape was not available for verification of 
the content of this address.