Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 9 (Monday, March 7, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 9 (Monday, March 7, 1994)]
[Pages 427-428]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Exchange With Reporters Prior to Discussions With President Leonid 
Kravchuk of Ukraine

March 4, 1994

    Q. Mr. President, do you think Mr. Nussbaum should resign?
    The President. I'm here with President Kravchuk to discuss a lot of 
very important issues. I have nothing to add to what I said yesterday. 
If I have anything else to say, it will be later today. I have nothing 
to say.
    Q. ----they'll follow through on the dismantling of the nuclear 
warheads?
    The President. Yes, I think they will do exactly what they said 
they'd do. President Kravchuk has had a good deal of success working 
with his Rada to secure approval of a continued denuclearization of 
Ukraine, and we will have some things to discuss about that today and 
some further announcements at our public statement in a couple of 
hours--we'll have some more to say about it.
    Q. ----sign the nonproliferation treaty, Mr. President?
    The President. I hope they will, and I think they're working toward 
that.

[At this point, one group of reporters left the room, and another group 
entered.]

[[Page 428]]

    The President. This is the Ukraine press.

[At this point, a question was asked in Ukrainian and no translation was 
provided.]

    President Kravchuk. We're just recalling our meetings, but we 
haven't started talks yet. But we recalled our Kiev meetings.
    Q. What is the opinion of this meeting, Mr. Clinton?
    The President. I thought they were very good meetings. We made, as 
you know, a very important agreement which we then signed in Moscow the 
next day. And I also very much enjoyed being in your country a brief 
time. We also had a wonderful meal. And we'll have a good meal today, 
but there won't be so many courses as there were when we were in--
[laughter]
    President Kravchuk. And the newspapers were covering it for a long 
time.
    The President. Yes.

Note: The exchange began at 11:42 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. President Kravchuk spoke in Ukrainian, and his remarks were 
translated by an interpreter. A tape was not available for verification 
of the content of this exchange.