Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 42 (Monday, October 24, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 42 (Monday, October 24, 1994)]
[Pages 2039-2040]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6745--National Penny Charity Week, 1994

October 14, 1994

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Individual acts of kindness are the currency of social change. 
Combined with others and directed toward a worthwhile cause, these 
efforts exemplify the spirit of volunteerism. Inspired by just such a 
vision of service, organizations throughout the country are coming 
together this week to recycle pennies for charitable causes.
    The penny is the most widely used of the denominations currently in 
circulation, but pennies too often rest idle in piggy banks and dresser 
drawers. The U.S. Mint--which will produce another 13.3 billion pennies 
this year to meet demands--joins me in encouraging citizens to help 
return pennies to circulation.
    With the holiday season approaching, this is a better time than ever 
to remember those who are in need of a helping hand. By contributing 
pennies to charities and worthy community causes, we can make this 
season a little brighter for our fellow citizens and truly make every 
penny count.
    The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 415, has designated the week 
of October 16, 1994, as ``National Penny Charity Week'' and has 
authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in 
observance of this week.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 16, 1994, as 
National Penny Charity Week. I urge all Americans to observe this week 
with appropriate ceremonies and activities, including the donation of 
pennies to charities, particularly those that provide direct services to 
our Nation's underprivileged and disadvantaged population, and to worthy 
community causes.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day 
of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred 
and nineteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 1:42 p.m., October 19, 
1994]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on October 15, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
October 21.

[[Page 2040]]