Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 43 (Monday, October 31, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 43 (Monday, October 31, 1994)]
[Pages 2150-2151]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on Implementation of Safe Schools Legislation

October 22, 1994

Memorandum for the Secretary of Education

Subject: Implementation of the Gun-Free Schools Act of 1994, and the 
Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act

    Our schools are increasingly plagued by violence and crime that is 
abhorrent to all law-abiding citizens. It is of paramount importance 
that this Nation's schools be safe, disciplined, and conducive to 
learning.
    Several laws passed this year will promote our effort to make 
schools safe for learning. The Gun-Free Schools Act of 1994 provides 
that within one year, every State receiving Federal aid for elementary 
and secondary education must have a law requiring school districts to 
expel from school for at least one year any student who brings a gun to 
school, subject to certain exceptions. The Safe and Drug-Free Schools 
and Communities Act funds comprehensive violence prevention programs, 
including those that enhance school security.
    To ensure vigorous enforcement, I am directing you to coordinate 
implementation of these anti-violence measures with appropriate local 
authorities to the maximum extent possible. Your collaborative efforts 
should include the States, school districts, law enforcement agencies, 
and educators. In the case of the Gun-Free Schools Act, en- 

[[Page 2151]]

forcement should include termination of Federal assistance if you 
determine that a State is not in compliance.
    You should report to me in writing by December 31 on the specific 
steps you have taken to implement these statutes.
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on October 25.