Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 18 (Monday, May 9, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 18 (Monday, May 9, 1994)]
[Page 952]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6680--Loyalty Day, 1994

April 30, 1994

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Each year, at the height of spring's renewal, Americans take the 
time to reaffirm our allegiance to our country and to the ideals upon 
which it was founded. On this ``Loyalty Day,'' we pledge to defend the 
blessings of American democracy.
    Ours is still a relatively young Nation, but even in our brief 
history, we have seen many other forms of government come and go. We 
have witnessed the collapse of dictatorial regimes, while our brand of 
democracy has continued to evolve and flourish. Rather than establishing 
government control through the deprivation of basic human rights, our 
founders realized that individual freedom and the right to self-
determination are the most powerful sources of national strength. This 
philosophy forms the bedrock upon which our Nation is built, and we 
continue to expand and enforce its wise mandate to this very day.
    Generations of Americans have demonstrated their loyalty and 
devotion to this country, many risking their lives for the sake of 
defending the common good. To ensure that this loyalty and love of 
country remain a vibrant part of each new generation, the Congress, by a 
joint resolution approved July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369; 36 U.S.C. 162), 
has designated May 1 of each year as ``Loyalty Day.''
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 1994, as Loyalty Day. I 
call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies 
and activities, including public recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance 
to the Flag of the United States. I also call upon government officials 
to display the flag on all government buildings and grounds on this day.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day 
of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
eighteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:37 p.m., May 2, 1994]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 4.