Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 32 (Monday, August 15, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 32 (Monday, August 15, 1994)]
[Pages 1655-1656]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention on Pollock Resources 
in the Central Bering Sea

August 9, 1994

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I trans- 

[[Page 1656]]

mit herewith the Convention on the Conservation and Management of 
Pollock Resources in the Central Bering Sea, with Annex, done at 
Washington on June 16, 1994. The Convention was signed on that date by 
the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, the Russian 
Federation, and the United States. Japan and the Republic of Poland, the 
other participating countries in the negotiation of the Convention, are 
expected to sign the Convention in the near future. I transmit also, for 
the information of the Senate, a report of the Secretary of State 
concerning the Convention.
    This Convention is a state-of-the-art fishing agreement that will 
aid in ensuring the long-term health of pollock stocks in the central 
Bering Sea on which the U.S. pollock industry in the Pacific Northwest 
in part depends. Its strong conservation and management measures will be 
backed up with effective enforcement provisions. The agreement will 
require that each vessel fishing for pollock in the central Bering Sea 
carry scientific observers and use real-time satellite position-fixing 
transmitters. All vessels of the Parties fishing in the central Bering 
Sea must consent to boarding and inspection by authorized officials of 
other States Parties for compliance with the provisions of the 
Convention.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to the Convention and provide its advice and consent to ratification.
                                            William J. Clinton
The White House,
August 9, 1994.