Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 33 (Monday, August 22, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 33 (Monday, August 22, 1994)]
[Page 1680]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Roger Altman as Deputy Secretary of 
the Treasury

August 17, 1994

Dear Roger:

    I have received your letter of today's date resigning as Deputy 
Secretary of the Treasury. I believe you have taken the right step under 
the circumstances, and I regretfully accept your resignation, effective 
upon the confirmation of your successor.
    I agree with Secretary Bentsen that you have made many valuable 
contributions to this administration as Deputy Secretary. You played a 
vital role in the passage of NAFTA and the deficit reduction plan, both 
critical steps for the American economy. I hope that in due course you 
will be able to return to public service. Meanwhile, I look forward to 
the benefit of your continuing advice and assistance.
    Sincerely,
                                                  Bill Clinton

                              B___________
                              

Dear Mr. President:

    I am resigning today as Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. Under the 
circumstances, this is the proper step to take. With your permission, 
the resignation would become effective upon the confirmation of my 
successor.
    As I explained to the Senate, I regret any mistakes or errors of 
judgment I may have made. For them, I apologize. And, hopefully, my 
stepping down will help to diminish the controversy.
    I am proud to have served in your Administration. It has laid a 
foundation for improving the security and standards of living of the 
American people. From the Economic Plan to NAFTA to health care, you 
have consistently made courageous decisions. And, I believe that history 
will regard them as such.
    It has been a special privilege to serve you, Secretary Bentsen, and 
the American people over the past year and a half. Thank you very much 
for the opportunity you gave me. I believe fervently in the 
Administration's agenda and hope to advance it in other capacities.
    Sincerely,
                                                  Roger Altman

Note: Mr. Altman's letter of resignation to Secretary of the Treasury 
Lloyd Bentsen and the Secretary's letter of acceptance were also 
released by the Office of the Press Secretary.