Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30 Issue 45 (Monday, November 14, 1994)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 30, Number 45 (Monday, November 14, 1994)]
[Pages 2310-2311]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 6755--National Women Veterans Recognition Week, 1994

November 5, 1994

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    During the American Civil War, both Union and Confederate forces 
relied on the skill and courage of women. Thousands volunteered as 
nurses; others spied on the enemy; many disguised themselves as men and 
stood to fight in battle. As our Nation has grown, so too has the number 
of women veterans. From Europe to Korea to the Persian Gulf, their 
knowledge and leadership have been essential in maintaining the 
unparalleled effectiveness of every branch of the United States Armed 
Forces.
    Today, American women share the responsibility of defending the 
cause of freedom around the world. Time and again, women have 
demonstrated their professionalism in peacetime and have proven their 
mettle in combat. Their heroism, their bravery, and their tireless 
devotion to duty have helped to ensure all Americans the protection of 
the greatest fighting force the world has ever known.
    America is blessed with more than 1 million living women veterans. 
In myriad different roles, they have brought honor to our country and 
strength to our cause. As more and more women answer the call to 
military service, we salute the many proud veterans who served before 
them and paved the way. Our veterans exemplify the spirit of patriotism 
and service that has characterized American women in uniform throughout 
our Nation's history.
    In respect for and recognition of these distinguished citizens, the 
Congress, by Public Law 103-148, has designated the week of November 6, 
1994, through November 12,

[[Page 2311]]

1994, as ``National Women Veterans Recognition Week'' and has authorized 
and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of 
this week.
    Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of November 6, 1994, 
through November 12, 1994, as National Women Veterans Recognition Week. 
I encourage all Americans to join in acknowledging the tremendous 
contributions and sacrifices of these noble veterans with appropriate 
programs, ceremonies, and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and 
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
nineteenth.
                                            William J. Clinton

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:35 a.m., November 8, 
1994]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 9.