Administration of Barack Obama, 2013 Statement on the 10th Anniversary of the Iraq War March 19, 2013 As we mark the 10th anniversary of the beginning of the Iraq war, Michelle and I join our fellow Americans in paying tribute to all who served and sacrificed in one of our Nation's longest wars. We salute the courage and resolve of more than 1.5 million servicemembers and civilians who, during multiple tours, wrote one of the most extraordinary chapters in military service. We honor the memory of the nearly 4,500 Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice to give the Iraqi people an opportunity to forge their own future after many years of hardship. And we express our gratitude to our extraordinary military families who sacrificed on the home front, especially our Gold Star families who remain in our prayers.  The last of our troops left Iraq with their heads held high in 2011, and the United States continues to work with our Iraqi partners to advance our shared interest in security and peace. Here at home, our obligations to those who served endure. We must ensure that the more than 30,000 Americans wounded in Iraq receive the care and benefits they deserve and that we continue to improve treatment for traumatic brain injury and posttraumatic stress disorder. With a strong post-9/11 GI bill, we must help our newest veterans pursue their education and find jobs worthy of their incredible talents. And all Americans can continue to support and honor our military families who are pillars of so many of our communities. On this solemn anniversary, we draw strength and inspiration from these American patriots who exemplify the values of courage, selflessness, and teamwork that define our Armed Forces and keep our Nation great. Categories: Statements by the President : Iraq war, 10th anniversary. Names: Obama, Michelle. Subjects: Armed Forces, U.S. : Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), treatment efforts; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Traumatic brain injuries, treatment efforts; Iraq : Relations with U.S.; Iraq : U.S. and coalition forces, withdrawal; Iraq : War with U.S., 10th anniversary; Veterans : Access to health and medical care; Veterans : Job training and education assistance. DCPD Number: DCPD201300165. 