Administration of Barack Obama, 2013 Checklist of White House Press Releases December 31, 2013 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. Released January 1 Fact sheet: The Tax Agreement: A Victory for Middle-Class Families and the Economy Released January 2 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 4310 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 8 Released January 4 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in December 2012 Released January 6 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 41 Released January 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for South Asia Douglas E. Lute on Afghan President Hamid Karzai's upcoming visit to the White House Released January 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 10 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1339, H.R. 1845, H.R. 2338, H.R. 3263, H.R. 3641, H.R. 3869, H.R. 3892, H.R. 4053, H.R. 4057, H.R. 4073, H.R. 4389, H.R. 5859, H.R. 6014, H.R. 6260, H.R. 6379, H.R. 6587, H.R. 6620, H.R. 6671, S. 925, S. 3202, S. 3666, and S.J. Res. 49 Released January 14 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 443, H.R. 1464, H.R. 2076, H.R. 4212, H.R. 4365, H.R. 4606, H.R. 6029, H.R. 6060, H.R. 6328, H.R. 6364, H.R. 6586, H.R. 6621, H.R. 6655, S.J. Res. 44, S. 3331, S. 3454, S. 3472, S. 3630, S. 3662, and S. 3677 Released January 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 2318 Released January 16 Text: Now Is the Time: The President's Plan To Protect Our Children and Our Communities by Reducing Gun Violence Released January 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 18 Statement by the Press Secretary on House Republican debt limit proposals Released January 21 Advance text of the President's Inaugural Address Released January 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released January 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 152 Fact sheet: Fixing Our Broken Immigration System So Everyone Plays by the Rules Excerpts from the President's remarks on immigration reform Released January 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the advance estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2012 Released January 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released February 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the explosion in Mexico City Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in January Released February 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 325 Released February 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney  Text: Statement by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism John O. Brennan on Bulgaria's announcement of Hizballah's role in the 2012 Burgas terrorist attack Released February 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney  Text: Readout of White House and Department of Homeland Security officials' meetings with law enforcement on comprehensive immigration reform Released February 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney  Released February 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney, Controller of the Office of Management and Budget's Office of Federal Financing Management Daniel I. Werfel, and National Economic Council Principal Deputy Director Jason Furman Fact sheet: Examples of How the Sequester Would Impact Middle Class Families, Jobs and Economic Security Released February 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released February 12 Statement by the Press Secretary: Executive Order on Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity Fact sheet: Presidential Policy Directive on Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Fact sheet: Afghanistan Text: Guest List for the First Lady's Box at the State of the Union Address Text: The President's Plan for a Strong Middle Class and a Strong America Excerpts of the President's State of the Union Address Advance text of the President's State of the Union Address Released February 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and National Economic Council Principal Deputy Director Jason Furman Statement by the Press Secretary: The President's Plan To Make America a Magnet for Jobs by Investing in Manufacturing Fact sheet: The President's Plan To Make America a Magnet for Jobs by Investing in Manufacturing Fact sheet: President Obama's Plan for Early Education for All Americans (embargoed until February 14) Released February 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on congressional action on the Federal budget Statement by the Press Secretary on the filibuster of the nomination of Charles T. Hagel as Secretary of Defense Released February 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: The President's Plan To Ensure Hard Work Leads to a Decent Living Released February 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released February 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: The President's Plan To Make America a Magnet for Jobs by Investing in Infrastructure Released February 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a conference call press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Daniel R. Russel on the visit of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan Text: White House Blog Post: A Balanced Plan To Avert the Sequester and Reduce the Deficit Released February 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Transportation Raymond H. LaHood Released February 24 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases New State-by-State Reports on the Impacts of the Sequester Released February 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano Released February 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: White House Policy for Countering Improvised Explosive Devices Released February 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Released February 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released March 1 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Pardons Released March 2 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces New Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Released March 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released March 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: One-Year Update on the Implementation of the National Strategy for Global Supply Chain Security Released March 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 47 Released March 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the 2007 disappearance of retired FBI agent Robert Levinson in Iran Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in February Fact sheet: Implementation of Export Control Reform Released March 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon at the Asia Society in New York City Released March 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the House Republican budget proposal Released March 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 307 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Senate Democratic budget proposal Released March 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel B. Shapiro Released March 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama's Blueprint for a Clean and Secure Energy Future Text: White House Blog Post: A Preview of the 2013 Economic Report of the President Released March 16 Statement by the Press Secretary on the formation of Israel's new government Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the 25th anniversary of the Halabja massacre in southern Kurdistan Released March 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released March 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: White House Announces New Coordinator for Defense Policy, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Arms Control Released March 20 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the visit of Cuban human rights advocate Yoani Sanchez to the United States Released March 21 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on passage of the U.N. Human Rights Council's resolution on Sri Lanka Advance text of the President’s remarks at the Jerusalem Convention Center in Jerusalem, Israel Released March 22 Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials on the telephone conversation between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the surrender of Congolese warlord Bosco Ntaganda to the International Criminal Court Released March 23 Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate passage of Federal budget legislation Released March 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Designates Five New National Monuments Released March 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 933 Released March 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released March 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released March 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: The "Rebuild America Partnership": The President's Plan To Encourage Private Investment in America's Infrastructure Released March 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Kenya Released April 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: BRAIN Initiative Released April 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Excerpts of the President's remarks on reducing gun violence Released April 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. security sector assistance policy Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the removal of highly enriched uranium from the Czech Republic Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in March Fact sheet: U.S. Security Sector Assistance Policy Released April 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on President Viktor Yanukovych of Ukraine's pardon of former Minister of Internal Affairs Yuriy Lutsenko and former Minister of Environmental Protection Heorhiy Fylypchuk Excerpts from the President's remarks on gun control Released April 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: The Obama Administration's Record on Human Trafficking Issues Released April 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget Jeffrey D. Zients, National Economic Council Director Eugene B. Sperling, and Director of Domestic Policy Cecilia Muñoz Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the earthquake in Iran Released April 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a weekly address by Francine Wheeler, mother of Ben Wheeler, who was killed in the December 14, 2012, shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut Released April 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 716 Released April 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Venezuela Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Minister of Foreign Affairs Saud al-Faysal bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Fact sheet: States Answer the First Lady's Call To Put America's Heroes Back to Work Released April 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released April 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released April 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy in New York City Released April 25 Transcript of a background conference call by a White House official on the situation in Syria  Released April 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the advance estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2013 Released April 28 Statement by the Press Secretary on the swearing-in of Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy Released April 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Administration Partners With Industry To Get Service Members for High-Demand Jobs Released May 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1246 and H.R. 1765 Released May 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in April Fact sheet: U.S.-Mexico Partnership Released May 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released May 4 Fact sheet: United States Support for Central American Citizen Security Fact sheet: United States Support for Economic Growth and Development in Central America Released May 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Advance text of the President's commencement address at the Ohio State University Released May 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released May 7 Text: Op-ed by President Obama for the Miami Herald: Improving Our Partnership With Latin America (a Spanish language version was also released) Released May 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Assistant to the President and Chief Technology Officer Todd Park Statement by the Press Secretary on the elections in Malaysia Released May 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Assistant to the President and Chief Technology Officer Todd Park Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Releases Historic Open Data Rules To Enhance Government Efficiency and Fuel Economic Growth Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Launches Competition for Three New Manufacturing Innovation Institutes Released May 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the National Strategy for the Arctic Region Released May 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released May 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released May 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: The President and Vice President's 2012 Financial Disclosure Forms Released May 16 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Calls on Congress To Fully Fund Embassy Security Text: Op-ed by President Obama for the Turkish daily Sabah: A Partnership That Delivers Fact sheet: U.S.-Turkey Economic Partnership Fact sheet: U.S.-Turkey Partnership Released May 17 Statement by the Press Secretary: Creating Jobs Faster by Cutting Timelines in Half for Major Infrastructure Projects Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1071 Released May 19 Advance text of the President's commencement address at Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia Released May 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces Sally Ride as a Recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom Released May 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released May 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released May 23 Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on the President's remarks at National Defense University Fact sheet: The President's May 23 Speech on Counterterrorism Fact sheet: U.S. Policy Standards and Procedures for the Use of Force in Counterterrorism Operations Outside the United States and Areas of Active Hostilities Advance text of the President's Remarks at National Defense University Released May 24 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 360 Released May 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released May 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Alan Krueger, Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, To Return to Princeton University Fact sheet: United States Support for Economic Growth and Development in the Caribbean Fact sheet: United States Support for the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative Released May 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: Readout on the First-Ever White House Hispanic Business Leaders' Forum Released May 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released May 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: White House Blog Post: Medicare Trustees: Medicare is Growing Stronger, With Help From the Affordable Care Act Fact sheet: President Obama Fights To Keep Interest Rates From Doubling Released June 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's approval of an Executive order regarding sanctions related to Iran Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 258 and S. 982 Fact sheet: President Obama Applauds Commitments To Raise Awareness and Increase Understanding of Mental Health at White House Conference Released June 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a background conference call by senior administration officials on the President's meetings with President Xi Jinping of China Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Egyptian court verdicts against representatives of international nongovernmental organizations Fact sheet: White House Task Force on High-Tech Patent Issues: Legislative Priorities and Executive Actions Fact sheet: U.S.-Chile Economic Relations Fact sheet: U.S.-Chile Partnership Released June 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential determination pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Qusayr, Syria Released June 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Unveils ConnectED Initiative To Bring America's Students Into Digital Age Statement by the Press Secretary on House passage of an amendment to remove protections for young undocumented immigrants Released June 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in May Released June 8 Transcript of a press briefing by National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon Statement by the Press Secretary: United States and China Agree To Work Together on Phase Down of HFCs Released June 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Fifty Years After the Equal Pay Act: Assessing the Past, Taking Stock of the Future Released June 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: U.S.-Peru Economic Relations Released June 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Advance text of remarks by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, OH Released June 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on Syria Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 622 Text: Statement by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on Syria's use of chemical weapons Released June 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and Senior Director for International Economic Issues Caroline Atkinson Fact sheet: Administration Provides Another Boost to Wireless Broadband and Technological Innovation Released June 15 Statement by the Press Secretary on the first anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Process Statement by the Press Secretary on the election in Iran Released June 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Northern Ireland Peace and Prosperity Fact sheet: Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (T–TIP) Fact sheet: U.S.-Russian Cooperation on Information and Communications Technology Security Fact sheet: United States and the Russian Federation Sign New Bilateral Framework on Threat Reduction Fact sheet: President Obama Increases Humanitarian Assistance to Syrians Released June 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a teleconference background briefing by senior administration officials on Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary on the Congressional Budget Office's evaluation of immigration reform legislation Fact sheet: The New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition Fact sheet: U.S. National Action Plan on Preventing the Misuse of Companies and Legal Arrangements Released June 19 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on al-Shabaab's Attack on the United Nations in Somalia Fact sheet: Nuclear Weapons Employment Strategy of the United States Released June 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Senior Director for African Affairs Grant Harris, and Senior Director for Development and Democracy Gayle Smith on the President's upcoming visit to Senegal, South Africa, and Tanzania Released June 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the report released by Acting Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service Daniel I. Werfel Released June 25 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 475 Fact sheet: President Obama's Plan To Cut Carbon Pollution Text: The President's Climate Action Plan Released June 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney on the President's Statement on the U.S. Supreme Court Ruling on the Defense of Marriage Act Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released June 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Rajiv J. Shah Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Strengthening Democratic Institutions, Rule of Law, and Human Rights in Sub-Saharan Africa Released June 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Fact sheet: Food Security in Sub-Saharan Africa Released June 29 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces the Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders Fact sheet: The President's Young African Leaders Initiative Released June 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes. Fact sheet: Global Health Investments and Partnership in Africa Fact sheet: Power Africa Released July 1 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Security Council Director for African Affairs Grant Harris, and U.S. Trade Representative Michael B. Froman Text: White House Blog Post: Commonsense Immigration Reform Will Strengthen Social Security Fact sheet: Trade Africa Fact sheet: U.S. Efforts To Combat Wildlife Trafficking Released July 5 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in June Released July 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Nancy Hogan To Step Down; Jonathan McBride To Serve as Assistant to the President and Director of Presidential Personnel Released July 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released July 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: The Economic Benefits of Fixing Our Broken Immigration System Statement by the Press Secretary on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee vote on employment discrimination prevention legislation Text: The Economic Benefits of Fixing Our Broken Immigration System Released July 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the Senate Judiciary Committee vote on the nomination of B. Todd Jones to be Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Released July 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 324, H.R. 1151, and H.R. 2383 Released July 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Accelerating Improvement in HIV Prevention and Care in the United States through the HIV Care Continuum Initiative Released July 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released July 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released July 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 251, H.R. 254, and H.R. 588 Fact sheet: Middle Class Americans Saving Billions under the Health Care Law's Medical Loss Ratio Refunds Released July 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released July 21 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the investiture of King Philippe of Belgium Released July 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released July 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Rep. Justin Amash's proposed amendment to H.R. 2397, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2014 Fact sheet: Bipartisan Student Loan Deal: A Win for Students Released July 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Advance text of the President's remarks at Knox College in Galesburg, IL Released July 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2289 Released July 26 Statement by the Press Secretary on the detention facilities at the U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba Released July 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: New Report Released by the White House: Fixing Our Broken Immigration System: The Economic Benefits to Agriculture and Rural Communities Text: Fixing Our Broken Immigration System: The Economic Benefits to Agriculture and Rural Communities Released July 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: A Better Bargain for the Middle Class: Jobs Advance text of the President's remarks at the Amazon Chattanooga Fulfillment Center in Chattanooga, TN Released July 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the advance estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2013 Released August 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: Executive Order on Improving Chemical Facility Safety and Security Released August 2 Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger on the employment situation in July Released August 4 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Inauguration of Hojjatoleslam Hassan Rouhani as President of Iran Released August 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: A Better Bargain for the Middle Class: Housing Released August 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun L.S. Donovan Advance text of the President's remarks at Desert Vista High School in Phoenix, AZ Released August 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on the expiration of the ban on imports from Burma Released August 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Names Presidential Medal of Freedom Recipients Released August 9 Statement by the Press Secretary: Background on the President's Statement on Reforms to NSA Programs Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 267, H.R. 678, H.R. 1092, H.R. 1171, H.R. 1344, H.R. 1911, H.R. 2167, H.R. 2576, and H.R. 2611 Released August 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: The Obama Administration's Work To Honor Our Military Families and Veterans Released August 11 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on Mexico's release of Rafael Caro Quintero from prison Released August 13 Statement by the Press Secretary: New White House Report: The Economic Benefits of Providing a Path to Earned Citizenship Text: Fixing Our Broken Immigration System : The Economic Benefits of Providing a Path to Earned Citizenship Released August 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest on the situation in Egypt Released August 15 Statement by the Press Secretary on new Department of Defense initiatives to curb sexual assault in the Armed Forces Released August 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on World Humanitarian Day Released August 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released August 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest on the alleged use of chemical weapons in Syria Released August 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan Fact sheet: President's Plan To Make College More Affordable: A Better Bargain for the Middle Class Released August 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released August 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Nation Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on National Security Adviser Susan Rice's meetings with the Israeli delegation Released August 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Appoints 2013–2014 Class of White House Fellows Statement by the Press Secretary on North Korea Statement by the Press Secretary on the Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technology Released August 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: New Executive Actions To Reduce Gun Violence Released August 30 Transcript of a conference call by senior administration officials on the President's visit to Sweden and Russia Transcript of a conference call by senior administration officials on the situation in Syria Text: U.S. Government Assessment of the Syrian Government's Use of Chemical Weapons on August 21, 2013 Text: Map To Accompany the U.S. Government Assessment of the Syrian Government's Use of Chemical Weapons on August 21, 2013 Fact sheet: The United States and Estonia—NATO Allies and Global Partners Fact sheet: The United States and Latvia—NATO Allies and Global Partners Fact sheet: The United States and Lithuania—NATO Allies and Global Partners Released September 4 Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate Foreign Relations Committee approval of a resolution authorizing U.S. military action in Syria Fact sheet: The United States and Sweden—Global Leaders on Clean Energy and Climate Change Released September 5 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Released September 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Evan S. Medeiros Statement by the Press Secretary: United States and China Reach Agreement on Phase Down of HFCs Statement by the Press Secretary: United States, China, and Leaders of G–20 Countries Announce Historic Progress Toward a Global Phase Down of HFCs Text: G–20 Leaders' Declaration Text: St. Petersburg Action Plan Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in August Fact sheet: The G–20 St. Petersburg Summit Released September 8 Statement by the Press Secretary congratulating Tokyo on being selected to host the 2020 Summer Olympics Released September 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser Anthony J. Blinken Statement by the Press Secretary: Establishment of the Advisory Council on Wildlife Trafficking Statement by the Press Secretary on additional countries in support of the September 6 Joint Statement on Syria Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the New America Foundation Released September 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on additional countries in support of the September 6 Joint Statement on Syria Released September 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released September 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released September 15 Text: White House Report—The Financial Crisis: Five Years Later Released September 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the United Nation's report on chemical weapons use in Syria Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the Presidential Determination with respect to Syria Released September 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the postponement of the state visit of President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil Released September 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 130, S. 157, S. 256, S. 304, and S. 459 Released September 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released September 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principle Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on the President's visit to the United Nations General Assembly Fact sheet: U.S.-Mexico High Level Economic Dialogue (released by the Office of the Vice President) Released September 21 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the terrorist attack at Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi, Kenya Released September 23 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Civil Society Fact sheet: The Equal Futures Partnership To Expand Women's Political and Economic Participation Released September 24 Transcript of a press briefing by senior administration officials Transcript of a press gaggle by a senior administration official on Iran Fact sheet: U.S. Humanitarian Assistance in Response to the Syrian Crisis Fact sheet: U.S. Security Assistance to Lebanon Fact sheet: Additional Humanitarian Assistance for Lebanese Host Communities and Refugees From Syria Advance text of the President's Remarks to the United Nations General Assembly Released September 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: White House Blog Post: Delivering on the Affordable Care Act: Marketplace Premiums Lower Than Expected Released September 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Launches Advanced Manufacturing Partnership Steering Committee "2.0" Released September 27 Transcript of a background conference call by a senior administration official on Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on the United Kingdom's announcement that it will host the 2014 NATO Summit Fact sheet: The United States and India—Strategic and Global Partners Released September 28 Statement by the Press Secretary on the continuing budget resolution passed by the House of Representatives Released September 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1412, H.R. 3092, and H.R. 3210 Released October 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released October 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 527 and S. 793 Released October 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the cancellation of the President's visit to Asia Released October 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3233 and S. 1348 Released October 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released October 8 Statement by the Press Secretary on immigration reform legislation Text: Trans-Pacific Partnership Leaders Statement Released October 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released October 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 91 Released October 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Fact sheet: Global Entrepreneurship Summit Released October 12 Statement by the Press Secretary on the need for congressional action to end the Federal Government shutdown and raise the public debt limit (dated October 13) Released October 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3095 Released October 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell on congressional passage of legislation to end Federal Government Released October 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2775 Fact sheet: U.S.-Italy Cooperation Released October 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released October 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in September Released October 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: The United States and Pakistan—Strong and Enduring Cooperation Released October 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released October 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released October 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released October 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by Press Secretary on the death of former Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki of Poland Released October 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released October 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Announce First-Ever Federal Effort To Attract Job-Creating Foreign Investment to the United States: Expanding and Enhancing SelectUSA Statement: New Report: Foreign Direct Investment in the United States: Report Prepared by the Department of Commerce and the President's Council of Economic Advisers Statement by Press Secretary on Senate confirmation of Katherine L. Archuleta as Director of the Office of Personnel Management Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3190 Text: Foreign Direct Investment in the United States Fact sheet: Marking Progress on the Second Anniversary of the Open Government Partnership Released November 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: U.S.-Iraq Cooperation Fact sheet: Executive Order on Climate Preparedness, President Obama Establishes a Task Force on Climate Released November 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate Action on Legislation To Prevent Employment Discrimination Against Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Persons Released November 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released November 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released November 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2013 Released November 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Modernizing and Investing in America's Ports and Infrastructure Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in October Released November 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released November 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2094 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3302 Text: Statement by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco on the designation of Boko Haram and Ansaru as foreign terrorist organizations Released November 14 Fact sheet: New Administration Proposal To Help Consumers Facing Cancellations Released November 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released November 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former President Glafcos Ioannou Clerides of Cyprus Text: Readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's Call with President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen Released November 19 Fact sheet: U.S. Response to Typhoon Haiyan Fact sheet: Youth CareerConnect Grants: Building America's Next Generation Workforce Advance text of remarks by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco at the New York University School of Law in New York City Released November 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney (dated November 19) Statement by the Press Secretary: New Report From the Council of Economic Advisers on "The Recent Slowdown in Health Care Cost Growth and the Role of the Affordable Care Act" Statement by the Press Secretary on the elections in Nepal Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the United Kingdom's announcement of public financing for alternate energy projects Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at Georgetown University Released November 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on Holodomor Remembrance Day Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 247, S. 330, and S. 893 Text: White House Blog Post: Improving Information—New Letters Make Health Insurance Choices Clear Released November 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: U.S.-Morocco Strong and Enduring Commitment Text: Joint Statement on the Inaugural Meeting of the U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission Working Group on Threats to and in the Use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) in the Context of International Security Released November 23 Fact sheet: First Step Understandings Regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran's Nuclear Program Advance text of the President's remarks on Iran Released November 24 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background briefing by senior administration officials on the first step agreement on Iran's nuclear program Released November 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: Readout of National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan Released November 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: New Report: Supporting Families, Strengthening Communities—The Economic Importance of Nutrition Assistance Statement by the Press Secretary on the 2007 disappearance of retired FBI agent Robert Levinson in Iran Statement by the Press Secretary on the pending Supreme Court case Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. Text: Supporting Families Strengthening Communities: The Economic Importance of Nutrition Assistance Released November 27 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1848, H.T. 3204, and S. 252 Released November 29 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the United Arab Emirate's selection as host of the 2020 World Expo Released December 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1545 Fact sheet: Shared Responsibility To Strengthen Results for an AIDS-Free Generation Released December 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Fact sheet: The United States and Colombia—Strategic Partners Fact sheet: The President's Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the Global Fund To Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Congressional Breakfast Released December 4 Fact sheet: Obama Administration Leadership on International Human Rights Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the Human Rights First Annual Summit Released December 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: New Report: The Economic Benefits of Extending Unemployment Insurance Statement by the Press Secretary on the Central African Republic Text: Report by the Council of Economic Advisers and the Department of Labor: The Economic Benefits of Extending Unemployment Insurance Text: Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the death of former President Nelson R. Mandela of South Africa Fact sheet: Presidential Memorandum on Federal Leadership on Energy Management Fact sheet: Attracting Manufacturing Investment in American Communities Released December 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Text: Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in November Released December 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3626 Released December 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the completion of the U.S.-Russia "Megatons to Megawatts" program Advance text of the President's remarks at the memorial service for former President Nelson R. Mandela of South Africa in Johannesburg, South Africa Released December 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Released December 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of the "Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013" Statement by the Press Secretary on Iowa's expansion of Medicaid under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on peace efforts in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa Text: White House Blog Post: Answering the Call on Cell Phone Unlocking Released December 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released December 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released December 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Released December 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: President's Meeting With the Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies Text: Liberty and Security in a Changing World: Report and Recommendations of the President's Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies Released December 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary James F. "Jay" Carney Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Releases New National and State Reports Showing the Costs of Repealing the Health Care Law Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Commutations and Pardons Statement by the Press Secretary on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 Text: "This Is The Affordable Care Act" National Report Text: "This Is The Affordable Care Act" State Reports Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the U.S-Mexico Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreement Text: White House Blog Post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman: The Economy in 2013 Fact sheet: U.S. Assistance to the Central African Republic Released December 20 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 185, H.R. 1402, H.R. 2251, H.R. 2871, H.R. 2922, H.R. 3458, H.R. 3588, and S. 1471 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Math and Science Teachers Released December 23 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Early-Career Scientists Statement by the Press Secretary on the ongoing air assaults by the Syrian Government Released December 26 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3304 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 59, H.R. 623, H.R. 767, H.R. 2319, H.R. 3343, and H.R. 3487 Released December 27 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the U.S-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission Joint Report Text: Statement by National Economic Council Director Eugene B. Sperling on the need for congressional action to extend emergency unemployment benefits Released December 29 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the all-party talks in Northern Ireland Released December 30 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the terrorist attacks in Volgograd, Russia Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the National Maritime Domain Awareness Plan  Text: National Maritime Domain Awareness Plan for the National Strategy for Maritime Security Released December 31 Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the all-party talks in Northern Ireland Text: Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on the situation in South Sudan  