Administration of Barack Obama, 2013 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2013 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 1 In the evening, the President traveled to Honolulu, HI, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Honolulu, HI, in the evening. January 2 In the morning, upon arrival at Joint Base Pearl Harbor–Hickam, HI, the President traveled to Kailua, HI, where he had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York to discuss Congressional action on the Hurricane Sandy supplemental request. In the afternoon, the President signed H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. He also signed H.R. 4310, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013. January 3 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with House Republican Leader Eric Cantor and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to extend his welcome to all Members of the 113th Congress. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to congratulate them on being redesignated to lead their respective parties in the House. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of John Dramani Mahama as President of Ghana on January 7: Daniel W. Yohannes (head of delegation); Gene A. Cretz; Johnnie Carson; and Donald G. Teitelbaum. The President announced that he has renominated Robert E. Bacharach to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit. The President announced that he has renominated Caitlin J. Halligan and Srikanth Srinivasan to be judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The President announced that he has renominated William J. Kayatta, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. The President announced that he has renominated Jill A. Pryor to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. The President announced that he has renominated Patty Shwartz to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The President announced that he has renominated Richard G. Taranto to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The President announced that he has renominated Elissa F. Cadish to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has renominated Valerie E. Caproni and Analisa Torres to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has renominated Sheri Polster Chappell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has renominated Pamela Ki Mai Chen to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced that he has renominated Brian J. Davis to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has renominated Shelly Deckert Dick to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has renominated Jennifer A. Dorsey and Andrew P. Gordon to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has renominated Katherine Polk Failla to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has renominated Kenneth J. Gonzales to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. The President announced that he has renominated Ketanji Brown Jackson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has renominated Rosemary Márquez to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has renominated Michael J. McShane to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon. The President announced that he has renominated Raymond P. Moore to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has renominated Troy L. Nunley to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California. The President announced that he has renominated Beverly Reid O'Connell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has renominated William H. Orrick III to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has renominated Nitza I. Quiñones Alejandro, Luis F. Restrepo, and Jeffrey L. Schmehl to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has renominated Nelson S. Román to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has renominated William L. Thomas to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has renominated Derrick K. Watson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii. The President announced that he has renominated Mark A. Barnett and Claire R. Kelly to be judges on the U.S. Court of International Trade. The President declared a major disaster in Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding due to the remnants of Hurricane Sandy on October 29 and 30, 2012. January 4 During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will return to Washington, DC, on January 5. January 5 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with former Sen. Charles T. Hagel to discuss his nomination to be Secretary of Defense. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. January 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to the White House on January 11. January 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. January 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Family Theater, he hosted a screening of NBC's "1600 Penn" program for castmembers and crew. January 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Nicholas L. Saban of the University of Alabama football team to congratulate him and the university on winning the BCS Championship. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with his senior advisers. The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through November 8, 2012. January 11 In the morning, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an expanded bilateral meeting with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. Then, in the Oval Office, he had a restricted bilateral meeting with President Karzai. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with President Karzai. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to former Staff Sergeant Clinton L. Romesha, USA, on February 11. January 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors: Ryszard Marian Schnepf of Poland, Kenichiro Sasae of Japan, Palan Mulonda of Zambia, Altangerel Bulgaa of Mongolia, Kairat Umarov of Kazakhstan, Fernando Antonio Pfannl Caballero of Paraguay, Aunese Makoi Simati of Tuvalu, Ahmed Sareer of Maldives, and Eduardo Medina Mora Icaza of Mexico. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Minister of Interior Muhammad bin Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations, congratulate him on his appointment as Minister of Interior, and convey his greetings to King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud. Also during the day, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden met to discuss proposals to reduce gun violence. January 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. January 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. January 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting between Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough and President Hassan Sheikh Mahamud of Somalia. In the afternoon, the President visited the headquarters of the Presidential Inaugural Committee to thank the staff for its hard work.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the hostage situation in Algeria, the situation Mali, and United Kingdom-U.S. relations.   January 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a "Benefactors' Brunch" for supporters of the Obama 2012 reelection campaign.  In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for supporters of the reelection campaign.  January 20 In the morning, the President and Vice President Joe Biden traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the morning, in the Blue Room, the President took the oath of office at the official swearing-in ceremony. Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended the ceremony, and the oath was administered by Supreme Court Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. January 21 In the morning, at St. John's Episcopal Church, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended a church service with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, Vice President Biden, and Jill T. Biden attended the Inaugural Parade. In the evening, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the President, Mrs. Obama, Vice President Biden, and Jill T. Biden attended the Inaugural Ball. January 22 In the morning, at the National Cathedral, the President and Mrs. Obama attended a national prayer service with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill. During the day, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted visitors during an Inaugural open house. January 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012 National Basketball Association champion Miami Heat to the White House on January 28. January 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. January 25 In the morning, the President met with leaders of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to discuss immigration reform. During the day, the President met with his senior advisers. Also during the day, he had a telephone conversation with President Francois Hollande of France to discuss the situations in Mali, Algeria, Libya, and Syria. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, on January 28. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Council on the Humanities: Gerald L. Early; Patricia Nelson Limerick; Shelly C. Lowe; Daniel I. Okimoto; and Katherine H. Tachau. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Council on Disability: Chester A. Finn; Jonathan F. Kuniholm; Jeff Rosen; Lynnae M. Ruttledge; and Alice Wong. The President announced that he has appointed Denis R. McDonough as White House Chief of Staff. The President announced that he has appointed Robert L. Nabors II as Assistant to the President and Deputy White House Chief of Staff for Policy. The President announced that he has appointed Antony J. Blinken as Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Adviser. The President announced that he has appointed Danielle C. Gray as Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary. The President announced that he has appointed Katy A. Kale as Assistant to the President for Management and Administration. The President announced that he has appointed Lisa O. Monaco as Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism and Deputy National Security Adviser. The President announced that he has appointed Jennifer M. Palmieri as Assistant to the President and Communications Director. The President announced that he has appointed H. Daniel Pfeiffer as Assistant to the President and Senior Adviser. The President announced that he has appointed Miguel E. Rodriguez as Assistant to the President and Director of Legislative Affairs. The President announced that he has appointed David Simas as Assistant to the President and Deputy Senior Adviser for Communications and Strategy. January 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to congratulate him on his party's success in the recent parliamentary election and to discuss Israel-U.S. relations. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.   In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with of the Boys and Girls Club of America Youth of the Year finalists. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the 10th Special Olympics World Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on January 29: Thomas J. Vilsack (head of delegation); Sung Kim; Judith E. Heumann; and Julie Petty. January 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with young people from the Make-A-Wish Foundation. Then, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm on December 25 and 26, 2012. January 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton had lunch. Later, in the Library, he participated in separate interviews with Jose Diaz-Balart of Telemundo  and Maria Elena Salinas of Univision ". The White House announced that the President will welcome President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy to the White House on February 15. The White House announced that the President will award the 2011 National Medals of Science and the National Medals of Technology and Innovation at the White House on February 1. January 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to Minneapolis, MN, on February 4. The President announced that he has nominated Jane Kelly  to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Gregory Alan Phillips to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. February 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to nominate Janet L. LaBreck to be Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to appoint Jonathan S. Foer as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Listenbee, Jr., as Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to appoint James Stock as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. February 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at the Minneapolis Police Department Special Operations Center, the President met with local leaders and law enforcement officials to discuss ways of reducing gun violence. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. February 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with progressive and labor leaders to discuss immigration reform. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with business leaders to discuss immigration reform and its affect on economic growth and the Federal deficit  Then, in the Oval Office he had a telephone conversation with Baltimore Ravens head coach John Harbaugh and general manager Ozzie Newsome, Jr., to congratulate them on their team's victory over the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Jonathan E. Favreau and Deputy Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan to prepare for his State of the Union Address. February 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Annapolis, MD, where, at the Westin Annapolis hotel, he participated in the Senate Democratic Issues Conference. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. February 7 In the morning, the President traveled to Leesburg, VA. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the Cabinet to discuss immigration reform. Later, in the Oval Office, the President met with Earvin "Magic" Johnson, Jr., to discuss HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention issues, especially in the African American community. The President announced that he has nominated Raymond T. Chen and Todd M. Hughes to be judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. February 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, the President traveled to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome the recipients of the 2012 Presidential Citizens Medal to the White House on February 15. February 10 The White House announced that the President will travel to the Asheville, NC, area on February 13, the Atlanta, GA, area on February 14, and Chicago, IL, on February 15. The President declared an emergency in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from a severe winter storm beginning on February 8 and continuing. February 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced further details on the President's visits to Arden, NC, on February 13, and Decatur, GA, on February 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Karol V. Mason to be Assistant Attorney General for Justice Programs,at the Department of Justice.  The President announced his intention to appoint Catherine A. Allen as a member of the board of directors of the Valles Caldera Trust. February 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  Also in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea to discuss North Korea's nuclear test, to affirm close cooperation in impeding North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs, and to discuss South Korea-U.S. relations. February 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Arden, NC, where he toured a Linamar North Carolina manufacturing facility with General Manager Mark Treffinger, Operations Manager Thomas Grein, and Group Vice President of Linamar Driveline Systems Group Global Phil McCulloch. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he met with Sens. Richard J. Durbin, Charles E. Schumer, Robert Menendez, and Michael F. Bennet to discuss immigration reform. Vice President Joe Biden, Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council Cecilia Muñoz, and Assistant to the President and Director of Legislative Affairs Miguel Rodriguez also participated in the meeting.  Later in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss North Korea's recent nuclear test, international diplomatic efforts toward a response, and Japan-U.S. relations.  The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Chicago, IL, on February 15. The White House announced that the President will travel to the West Palm Beach, FL, area on February 15. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding beginning on February 10 and continuing. February 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Decatur, GA. In the afternoon, the President toured College Heights Early Childhood Learning Center, where he met with students and teachers. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. February 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. Upon arrival, he traveled to Hyde Park Academy High School, where he participated in a roundtable discussion with students enrolled in a school-based antiviolence program. Later, he traveled to West Palm Beach, FL, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to Palm City, FL, where he remained overnight at the Floridian Yacht and Golf Club. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on February 22. The White House announced that the annual Easter egg roll will take place on April 1. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Seoul, South Korea, to attend the Inauguration of Park Geun-hye as President of South Korea on February 25: Thomas E. Donilon (head of delegation); Sung Kim; James D. Thurman; and Daniel R. Russel. February 18 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. February 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Sens. Lindsey O. Graham, John S. McCain III, and Marco A. Rubio to discussion immigration reform and the Federal budget. February 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he had separate interviews with television news anchors from the Boston, MA; Charleston, SC; Baltimore, MD; Oklahoma, OK; Wichita, KS; San Antonio, TX; San Francisco, CA; and Honolulu, HI, media markets. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Freetown, Sierra Leone, to attend the Inauguration of Ernest Bai Koroma as President of Sierra Leone on February 22: Carrie Hessler-Radelet (head of delegation); and Kathleen FitzGibbon. February 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had separate interviews for the syndicated radio shows of Al Sharpton, Joe Madison, and Yolanda Adams. February 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, they attended a meeting of the Democratic Governors Association. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding beginning from January 8 through 17. February 23 The White House announced that the President will travel to Newport News, VA, on February 26. February 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Indian Treaty Room of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President attended the farewell reception for U.S. Trade Representative Ronald Kirk. February 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss Egypt-U.S. relations; democracy efforts, economic concerns, and human rights issues in Egypt, the Arab-Israeli peace process, and Secretary of State John F. Kerry's upcoming visit to Egypt. Then, also in the Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Newport News, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Jannette L. Dates and Bruce M. Ramer to be members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen J. Hadley to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace. The President announced his intention to nominate Geoffrey R. Pyatt to be Ambassador to Ukraine. The President announced his intention to appoint Teresa Isabel Leger as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Stephen L. Mayo as a member of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation. February 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. February 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden attended the swearing-in ceremony for Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. "Jack" Lew. Then, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with American Legion National Commander James E. Koutz. The White House announced that the President will welcome the BCS National Champion University of Alabama Crimson Tide to the White House on March 6. March 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to discuss Russia-U.S. relations, the situation in Syria, the upcoming Group of Eight (G–8) summit in Northern Ireland in June, and President Obama's visit to St. Petersburg for the Group of Twenty (G–20) meeting in September. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss pending mandatory Federal spending cuts. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama had dinner with former President William J. Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President declared a major disaster for the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and ordered Federal aid to supplement tribal recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from January 14 through 17. March 2 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Sens. Robert P. Corker, Jr., Robert J. Portman, and other Members of Congress to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with Sen. Susan M. Collins and other Members of Congress to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. March 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families, presented Purple Hearts to two servicemembers, and participated in a promotion ceremony for one servicemember. Then, he returned to Washington, DC.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will have a signing ceremony for the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 on March 7. The President declared a major disaster for the Navajo Nation and ordered Federal aid to supplement tribal efforts in the area affected by a severe freeze from December 15, 2012, through January 21, 2013. March 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. "Jack" Lew. In the evening, at the Plume restaurant in the Jefferson hotel, the President had dinner with a group of Republican  Senators to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. The White House announced that the President will welcome Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah of Brunei to the White House on March 12. The White House announced that the President will visit the U.S. Capitol next week, where he will meet separately with the Democratic and Republican Caucuses of the House of Representatives and Senate to discuss his legislative agenda. March 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, met with leaders of Jewish organizations to discuss his upcoming trip to Israel. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with Reps. Christopher Van Hollen, Jr., and Paul D. Ryan and discussed tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. In the evening, the President met with business leaders and renewable energy experts to discuss energy policy. March 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with religious leaders to discuss immigration reform. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden attended the swearing-in ceremony for John O. Brennan as Director of Central Intelligence. March 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to Capt. Emil J. Kapaun, USA, on April 11. March 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President had lunch with Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah of Brunei. Then, at the U.S. Capitol, he met with the Senate Democratic Caucus. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland to the White House on March 19. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Commission on Long-Term Care: Henry Claypool; Julian Harris; and Carol Raphael. The President announced his intention to appoint Diana Shaw Clark and Greg A. Rosenbaum as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. March 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the U.S. Capitol, the President met with the House Republican Conference. Later, in the Oval Office he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with business leaders to discuss cybersecurity issues. Later in the afternoon, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the President met with business leaders to discuss immigration reform and economic issues. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont, IL, on March 15. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah K. Jones to be Ambassador to Libya. The President announced his intention to nominate James Knight to be Ambassador to Chad. The President announced his intention to appoint Lesley Weiss as Chair and a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. March 14 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to congratulate him on his new position and to discuss China-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, at the U.S. Capitol, the President had separate meetings with the Senate Republican caucus and the House Democratic caucus. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing.  March 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Lemont, IL. Upon arrival, he toured the facilities of Argonne National Laboratory. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Vatican City to attend the Inauguration of Pope Francis on March 19: Joe Biden (head of delegation); Susana Martinez; Nancy Pelosi; and John J. DeGioia. March 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone, President Macky Sall of Senegal, President Joyce Banda of Malawi, and Prime Minister José Maria Pereira Neves of Cape Verde to the White House on March 28. March 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister J. Martin P. McGuinness of Northern Ireland. In the evening, the President traveled to Tel Aviv, Israel, arriving the following afternoon. The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine M. Russell to be Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues at the Department of State. The President announced that he has nominated Patricia E. Campbell-Smith and Elaine D. Kaplan to be judges on the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The President announced that he has nominated Michael K. O'Keefe and Robert D. Okun to be judges on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from February 8 through 10. March 20 In the afternoon, at Ben Gurion Airport, the President toured an Iron Dome antimissile battery. Then, he traveled to the King David Hotel in Jerusalem. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the President's Residence, where he signed the guest book and participated in a tree-planting ceremony and photo opportunity with President Shimon Peres of Israel. Then, he traveled to the Prime Minister's Residence, where he signed the guest book and was greeted by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. In the evening, at the Prime Minister's Residence, the President and Prime Minister Netanyahu had a working dinner. Later, he returned to the King David Hotel. March 21 In the morning, the President traveled to the Israel Museum, where he and Prime Minister Netanyahu viewed the Dead Sea Scrolls. Then, also at the museum, they toured an Israeli technology exposition, where the President greeted U.S. Army veteran Theresa Hannigan, who demonstrated an apparatus designed to aid spinal cord injuries. He also met with Israeli high school students and alumni of Cisco Israel's Digital Cities Project. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Ramallah, West Bank, where, at the Muqata Presidential Compound, he participated in an arrival ceremony and photo opportunity with President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority. Then, also at the Presidential Compound, he met with President Abbas. In the afternoon, at the Muqata Presidential Compound, the President had a working lunch with President Abbas. Later, he traveled to Al-Bireh, West Bank, where, at the Youth Development Resource Center, he and Prime Minister Salam Fayyad of the Palestinian Authority toured a robotics lab and watched a youth dance performance. Then, also at the Resource Center, he participated in a roundtable discussion with Palestinian youth. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Jerusalem, Israel. In the evening, the President traveled to the U.S. Consulate General, where he met with consular and U.S. Embassy—Tel Aviv personnel. Then, he returned to the King David Hotel.  Later in the evening, the President traveled to the President's Residence. He then returned to the King David Hotel. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012 Stanley Cup champion Los Angeles Kings and the 2012 Major League Soccer champion Los Angeles Galaxy to the White House on March 26. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia L. Attwood to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart F. Delery to be Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Fred P. Hochberg to be President of the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate Allison M. Macfarlane to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment, to designate her as Chair. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia M. Wald to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from February 8 through 11. March 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Israel's national cemetery at Mount Herzl, where, accompanied by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Shimon Peres of Israel, he laid a wreath and stone at the grave of Theodor Herzl and signed the guest book. He also laid a wreath and stone at the grave of former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and met with members of the Rabin family. He then traveled to Yad Vashem, where he, Prime Minister Netanyahu, and President Peres toured the Hall of Names, the Art Museum, and the Children's Memorial. He also laid a wreath in the Hall of Remembrance and signed the guest book.  Later in the morning, the President returned to the King David Hotel, where he had lunch with Prime Minister Netanyahu. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethlehem, West Bank, where he toured the Church of the Nativity with President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority and met with church leaders and local government officials. He also visited the Church of Saint Catherine, where he greeted Palestinian children. The President then traveled to Tel Aviv, Israel, where at Ben Gurion Airport, he had a private meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu. Later, he traveled to Amman, Jordan, where, upon arrival, he traveled to the Al Hummar Offices, the headquarters of King Abdullah II of Jordan. In the evening, at the Al Hummar Offices, the President participated in an arrival ceremony with King Abdullah II. Later, he traveled to Beit Al Urdun, where he and King Abdullah had dinner. The President declared a major disaster in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on February 8 and 9. March 23 In the morning, at the Four Seasons Amman Hotel, the President met with U.S. Embassy staff and their families. Later, he traveled to Petra, Jordan, where toured the ancient ruins and monuments with Professor Suleiman A.D. Al Farajat of the University of Jordan. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Amman, Jordan, where at Queen Alia International Airport, he was greeted by King Abdullah II of Jordan. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President declared a major disaster in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the severe winter storm and snowstorm on February 8 and 9. March 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a signing ceremony establishing the Río Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico, the First State National Monument in Delaware, the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Monument in Maryland, the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Ohio, and the San Juan Islands National Monument in Washington. Vice President Biden and Secretary of the Interior Kenneth L. Salazar also attended. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Seder to mark the beginning of Passover. The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, and flooding on February 8 and 9. March 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on March 29. The President announced his intention to appoint Julia A. Pierson as Director of the U.S. Secret Service at the Department of Homeland Security. March 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in separate interviews with Lourdes Meluza of Univision and Lori Montenegro of Telemundo. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden participate in a swearing-in ceremony for Julia A. Pierson as Director of the U.S. Secret Service, Department of Homeland Security. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore on April 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mexico and Costa Rica from May 2 through 4. March 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President signed Executive Order 13639 establishing the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. March 29 In the morning, the President traveled to Miami, FL, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, at PortMiami, the President toured a tunnel infrastructure project. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.  March 30 The White House announced that the President will travel to Denver, CO, on April 3. March 31 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended an Easter Sunday service at St. John's Church. April 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, on the South Lawn, he blew the whistle to begin the Easter egg roll. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Robby Novak, who stars as "Kid President" in self-made YouTube videos, and gave him a personal tour of the Oval Office.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Northern California on April 3 and 4. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian C. Deese to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Commission on the Structure of the Air Force: Janine Davidson; Dennis M. McCarthy; F. Whitten Peters; and Margaret C. Harrell. The President announced his intention to appoint Hyman Bass, Carlos Castillo-Chavez, and Joseph S. Francisco as members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. April 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Then, in the Family Theater, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a screening of the film "42" for members of Jackie Robinson's family, castmembers, and crew. April 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later he traveled to Denver, CO, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at the Denver Policy Academy, the President met with local law enforcement officials and community leaders to discuss gun control. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to the Intercontinental San Francisco hotel, where he remained overnight. April 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Atherton, CA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor posthumously to Capt. Emil J. Kapaun, USA, on April 11. The White House announced that the President will welcome Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to the White House on April 16.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Hartford, CT, on April 8. April 5 In the morning, in the Blue Room, the President met with religious leaders. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a telephone interview with  Cliff Kelley and Matt McGill of WVON in Chicago, IL. The White House announced that the President will welcome Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations to the White House on April 11. The White House announced that the President will award the 2012 Commander in Chief's Trophy to the U.S. Naval Academy football team at the White House on April 12. The White House announced that the President will welcome Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani of Qatar to the White House on April 23. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Abdullah II of Jordan to the White House on April 26. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to the White House on May 16. April 7 The White House announced that the President will travel to West Hartford, CT, on April 8. April 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to West Hartford, CT, where, at the University of Hartford, he met with the families of victims killed in the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT, on December 14, 2012. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, accompanied aboard Air Force One by family members of victims killed in the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from February 24 through 26. April 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss the transition of security operations to Afghan forces, preparations for Afghanistan's 2014 elections, Afghan-led peace and reconciliation efforts, and Afghanistan-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark G. Pearce to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board and, upon appointment, to designate him as Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate Harry I. Johnson III and Philip A. Miscimarra to be members of the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Tammie Kahn, George Kerscher, and Jacquelyn K. Sundstrand as members of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Samuel N. Gordon and Maureen Schulman as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Melanie N. Roussell as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. April 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Geno Auriemma, head coach of the University of Connecticut women's basketball team, to congratulate him on his team's victory in the 2012 NCAA championship game. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President had dinner with Republican Senators. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Rick Pitino, head coach of the University of Louisville men's basketball team, to congratulate him on his team's victory in the 2013 NCAA championship game. Also during the day, he met with Peter Maurer, President of the International Committee of the Red Cross, to discuss U.S. policies regarding the detention of alleged terrorists at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. April 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with members of the Financial Services Forum to discuss the national economy. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in a conference call with local elected officials and business and community leaders from around the Nation to discuss youth employment opportunities. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with family members of victims killed in the December 14, 2012, shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT, to discuss Senate action on gun control legislation. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012 BCS National Champion University of Alabama football team to the White House on April 15. The White House announced that the President will welcome 2012 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series champion Brad Keselowski to the White House on April 16. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew C. Armstrong to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President announced his intention to nominate Rick Lowe to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Tulinabo Salama Mushingi to be Ambassador to Burkina Faso. The President announced his intention to appoint Eric P. Schwartz as a member of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. April 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. April 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Library, he participated in a television interview with Savannah Guthrie of NBC's "Today" program, which was taped for later broadcast. In the afternoon, the President was notified of the explosions that occurred at the Boston Marathon in Boston, MA. Later, in the Oval Office, he received a teleconference briefing from Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, and White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough on the ongoing investigation of the explosions. Then, he also had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts and Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston, MA, to extend his condolences for the loss of life, express his concern for those injured, and to offer Federal assistance. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors: Maria Cecilia Nahon of Argentina, Cui Tiankai of China, Mohktar Chaouachi of Tunisia, Archil Gegeshidze of Georgia, and Ruben Ignacio Zamora Rivas of El Salvador. Later, he received an update from Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano on the explosions in Boston, MA. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Park Geun-hye of South Korea to the White House on May 7. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to London, England, to attend the funeral of former Prime Minister Margaret H. Thatcher of the United Kingdom on April 17: George Shultz and James A. Baker III (heads of delegation); Barbara Stephenson; and Louis Susman. The President announced his intention to nominate Vernon S. Broderick to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced his intention to nominate Rachel E. Barkow, Charles R. Breyer, and William H. Pryor, Jr., to be Commissioners on the U.S. Sentencing Commission.  The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas Murray as a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. April 16 In the morning, the President received a briefing on the ricin-laced letters sent to the White House and the office of Sen. Roger Wicker. Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken, National Security Adviser to the Vice President Jake Sullivan, Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough and Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III to discuss the ongoing investigation into the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston, MA. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates. Later, on the South Lawn, he met with NASCAR Sprint Cup Series Champion Brad Keselowski to congratulate him on his victory and thank him for NASCAR's public service. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Sens. John S. McCain III and Charles E. Schumer to discuss immigration reform. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. In the evening, the President received an update on the ricin-laced letters sent to the White House and the office of Sen. Roger Wicker. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, on April 18. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Lawrence, KS, on April 19 had been canceled. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Warsaw, Poland, to attend a commemoration ceremony for the 70th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising on April 19: Stephen D. Mull (head of delegation); Douglas A. Davidson; Lesley L. Weiss; Joseph D. Gutman; and Estelle W. Laughlin. April 17 In the morning, the President received an update on the ricin-laced letters sent to the White House and the office of Sen. Roger Wicker. Then, also in the Oval Office, he was briefed on the ongoing investigation into the terrorist attack in Boston, MA. Later, he had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with the recipients of the 2013 Goldman Environmental Prize. During the day, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with the families of victims killed in the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT, on December 14, 2012. In the evening, at the Jefferson hotel, the President had dinner with members of the Senate Democratic Caucus to discuss immigration reform, gun control, and the national economy. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Boston, MA, on April 18. The President announced his intention to nominate Avril D. Haines to be Legal Adviser at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrea Levere to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank. The President announced his intention to appoint Brian Kamoie as Assistant Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Jim W. Balsiger and Gary T. Smith as U.S. Commissioners of the U.S. Section of the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission. The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from explosions in Boston on April 15 and covering eligible activities through April 22. April 18 In the morning, the President received a briefing on the investigation into the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston, MA, from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco. Then, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Boston, MA. In the afternoon, at Massachusetts General Hospital, the President visited with survivors of the bombings, their family members, and hospital staff. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the East Room, the President hosted a reception for Greek Independence Day. The White House announced that the President will host the White House science fair on April 22. April 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he received a briefing from his national security team on the latest developments in the investigation into the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston, MA, and the manhunt for surviving bombing suspect Dzokhar Tsarnaev in Watertown, MA. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by his national security team on the latest developments in the investigation into the Boston terrorist attack. Then, he had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts and Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston, MA, to express his condolences for the death of Massachusetts Institute of Technology Policy Officer Sean Collier, who was fatally shot in pursuit of bombing suspects Tamerlan and Dzokhar Tsarnaev on the evening of April 18. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to accept his condolences for the loss of life in the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston and discuss Russia's support and continued cooperation on  counterterrorism and security matters. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, and flooding on February 8 and 9. The President declared an emergency in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from an explosion at the West Fertilizer Company Plant on April 17 and continuing. April 20 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, National Security Adviser  Thomas E. Donilon, Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III,  Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper, Jr., and Director of Central Intelligence John O. Brennan to discuss the ongoing investigation into the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston, MA. Vice President Joe Biden also participated via video conference. The White House announced that the President will honor the 2013 National Teacher of the Year and finalists on April 23. April 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the East Garden and State Dining Room, the President viewed science fair projects at the White House Science Fair. Later, in the Oval Office, he observed a moment of silence in honor of the victims of the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston, MA. Then, he had separate telephone conversations with Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Richard DesLauriers and Boston Police Commissioner Edward F. Davis to commend the professionalism, bravery, and coordination of the Joint Terrorism Task Forces and the Boston Police Department. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will visit Dallas, TX, on April 24. The White House Announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will visit Waco, TX, on April 25. April 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President had dinner with a bipartisan group of woman Senators. The President announced his intention to nominate D. Michael Bennett to be a Governor on the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Roberto R. Herencia to be a member on the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Yvette Roubideaux to be Director of the Indian Health Service at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm on February 8 and 9. April 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Then, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Dallas, TX, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Omni Dallas Hotel. April 25 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the George W. Bush Presidential Center on the campus of Southern Methodist University, where they toured the center, posed for a photograph with former Presidents and First Ladies, and attended a luncheon. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Waco, TX, where, at Baylor Univeristy's Ferrell Center, he met with families of the West Fertilizer Company Plant explosion victims. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Nanci E. Langley to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Howard A. Shelanski to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate William S. Jasien to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Brent F. Nelson to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. April 26 In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with a group of U.S. business leaders to discuss expanding U.S. commerce in Mexico and Central America. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a snowstorm from February 20 through 23. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to emergency conditions resulting from flooding beginning on April 22 and continuing. April 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to offer his condolences for the loss of life in the April 26 fire at Psychiatric Hospital No. 14 in Ramenskiy, continuing counterterrorism and security cooperation with Russia, the upcoming 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, and the situation in Syria. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with Latino leaders to discuss the President's upcoming visit to Mexico and Costa Rica. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with pediatric brain cancer patient Jack Hoffman of Atkinson, NE, and signed a football for him. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to the Netherlands to attend the investiture of King Willem-Alexander on April 30: Adm. James G. Stavridis, USN (head of delegation); and Fay Hartog-Levin. April 30 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The President announced his intention to nominate Colin S. Bruce to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois. The President announced his intention to nominate Sara Lee Ellis and Andrea R. Wood to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. May 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. May 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Mexico City, Mexico, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in the Salon de Recepciones at the Palacio Nacional, he met with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico. Later, at the InterContinental Presidente Hotel, he met with U.S. Embassy personnel.  In the evening, at Los Pinos, the official residence of the President of Mexico, the President and President Peña Nieto had a working dinner. The White House announced that the President will travel to Columbus, OH, on May 5. May 3 In the morning, at the National Anthropology Museum, the President met with Mexican entrepreneurs. In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Jose, Costa Rica. Later, upon arrival in San Jose, he traveled to the InterContinental Real Hotel, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel. Then, at the Casa Amarilla, the headquarters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Costa Rica, he met with President Laura Chinchilla Miranda of Costa Rica. Later in the afternoon, at the Casa Amarilla, the President and President Chinchilla Miranda participated in a cultural event with Costa Rican youth. In the evening, at the National Theater, the President participated in a group photo and a working dinner with President Chinchilla Miranda and the leaders of the Central American Integration System. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm from April 9 through 11. May 4 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. May 5 In the morning, the President traveled to Columbus, OH. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 6 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he played golf with Sens. Robert P. Corker, Jr., Saxby Chambliss, and Mark E. Udall. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Austin, TX, area on May 9. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storm from April 9 through 11. May 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with President Park. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Later in the afternoon, at the St. Regis Washington, D.C. Hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. May 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Department of Energy, the President met with energy utility executives and trade association leaders to discuss lessons learned and actions taken since Hurricane Sandy as well as joint preparations for the upcoming hurricane season. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with leaders from the Asian American and Pacific Islanders community to discuss immigration reform, health care, and the national economy. In the evening, at the Jefferson hotel, the President had dinner with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Democratic leaders in the House of Representatives. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss regional security and peace efforts in the Middle East and Israel-U.S. security cooperation. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to the White House on May 13. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile to the White House on June 4. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ollanta Humala of Peru to the White House on June 11. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph W. Nega and Michael B. Thornton to be judges on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to nominate Davita Vance-Cooks to be Public Printer of the United States at the Government Printing Office. The President announced his intention to appoint Margaret W. Burcham as a Commissioner on the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Leonard Forsman as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. May 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Austin, TX, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Manor, TX, where at Manor New Technology High School, he toured classrooms, viewed technology and engineering projects, and visited with students and staff. Then, he traveled to Austin, TX, where at Stubb's Bar-B-Q restaurant, he had lunch with local residents Tyson Simmons, Caroline Sweet, Joe Alonzo, and Agnes Wommack. Then, at Capital Factory, a technology startup incubator and coworking space, he toured the facility with founder Joshua Baer and visited with resident entrepreneurs. Later in the afternoon, at Applied Materials, Inc., the President toured manufacturing facilities with Mike Splinter, chief executive officer, Rick Gesing, vice president of global operations manufacturing, and Mary Humiston, senior vice president of global human resources, and visited with staff. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Mohammed VI of Morocco to discuss Morocco-U.S. relations. The President announced that he has nominated Madeline Hughes Haikala to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. The President announced that he has nominated Gregory H. Woods to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. May 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on May 13. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to the United Kingdom and Germany from June 17 through 19. The President announced his intention to nominate Ryan C. Crocker to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from April 8 through 10. The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 16 through May 5. May 13 In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mohamed Najib bin Abdul Razak of Malaysia to congratulate him on his party's victory in the recent parliamentary elections and discuss Malaysia-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 14 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, president of the Pakistan Muslim League–Nawaz, to congratulate him on his party's success in the recent parliamentary elections and discuss Pakistan-U.S. relations. Then, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Baltimore, MD, on May 17.  May 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Sen. John S. McCain III to discuss immigration reform and other issues. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew and other senior Treasury Department officials to discuss the situation related to the Internal Revenue Service's process for approving tax-exempt status. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Thein Sein of Burma to the White House on May 20. The White House announced that the President will travel to Atlanta, GA, on May 19. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel R. Russel to be Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard T. Metsger to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael G. Whitaker as Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint Alphonso Maldon, Jr., as a member and Chairman of the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Mary C. Pete as a member of the Arctic Research Commission. May 16 In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, USA, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other Defense Department officials to discuss sexual assault in the military. Then, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the evening, in the Red Room, the President and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey had a working dinner. The President announced his intention to nominate Jon M. Holladay to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to appoint Natalie Wyeth Earnest as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to appoint Gregory L. Parham as Assistant Secretary for Administration at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to appoint Gabrielle D. Giffords as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President announced that he has nominated Debra M. Brown to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi. The President announced that he has nominated Carolyn B. McHugh to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Pamela L. Reeves to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Elizabeth A. Wolford to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. The President announced that he has appointed Daniel I. Werfel as Acting Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. May 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Baltimore, MD, where, at Moravia Park Elementary School, he participated in a literacy lesson in the library with prekindergarten students. In the afternoon, at Ellicott Dredges, LLC, the President toured the manufacturing facility with President and Chief Executive Officer Peter A. Bowe, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Martin E. Barnes, Jr., and General Manager Robert E. Croom. Later, at the Center for Urban Families, he participated in a roundtable discussion with current and former students, employers, and trainers from the STRIVE Baltimore Employment Training program. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, the President met with incoming acting Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Daniel I. Werfel. May 19 In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. May 20 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Michel Sleiman of Lebanon to discuss the situation in Syria and commend President Sleiman's leadership in overseeing the political transition in Lebanon. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy to congratulate him on his election victory and discuss the upcoming Group of Eight (G–8) nations summit in Northern Ireland, the situation in Syria, and Italy-U.S. relations.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with senior advisers. In the evening, in the Oval office, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, Rep. Thomas J. Cole, and Mayor Glenn Lewis of Moore, OK, to express his concern for those affected by the tornadoes and severe weather in Oklahoma and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts. The White House announced that the President will meet with President Xi Jinping of China at Sunnylands Estate in Rancho Mirage, CA, on June 7 and 8. The White House announced that the President and First Lady will travel to Senegal, South Africa, and Tanzania from June 26 through July 3. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and tornadoes beginning on May 18 and continuing. May 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Deputy Administrator Richard A. Serino, White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, and other members of his homeland security team on the Federal Government's ongoing response to the tornadoes and severe weather that struck Oklahoma on May 19 and 20. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with young immigrants and the families of undocumented immigrants to discuss immigration reform. In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma and Mayor Glenn Lewis of Moore, OK, to express his concern for those affected by the tornadoes and severe weather in Oklahoma and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts. Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Sen. James M. Inhofe to express his concern for those affected by the tornadoes and severe weather in Oklahoma and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert F. Bauer and Benjamin L. Ginsberg as Cochairs of the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Presidential Commission on Election Administration: Brian Britton; Joe Echevarria; Charles M. "Trey" Grayson III; Harvard "Larry" Lomax; Michele Coleman Mayes; Ann McGeehan; Tammy Patrick; and Christopher M. Thomas. May 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel M. Tangherlini to be Administrator of the General Services Administration. The President made additional disaster assistance available to the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians by authorizing an increase in Federal funding for public assistance projects undertaken as a result of severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from January 14 through 17. May 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine Archuleta to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management. The President announced his intention to nominate William I. Althen to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Ann Marie Buerkle to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Piwowar and Kara M. Stein to be Commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate James F. Entwistle to be Ambassador to Nigeria. The President announced his intention to nominate Chai R. Feldblum to be a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas E. Lute to be U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria J. Nuland to be Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel A. Sepulveda for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Communications and Information Policy at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Schaefer to be Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate John H. Thompson to be Director of the Census at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to appoint Calvin L. Holmes as a member of the Community Development Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint John C. Padalino as Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to appoint Clark W. Stevens as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced that he has nominated Landya B. McCafferty to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Hampshire. The President announced that he has nominated Brian Morris and Susan P. Watters to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Montana. The President announced that he has nominated Zachary T. Fardon to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. The President made additional disaster assistance available to New York by authorizing an increase in Federal funding for public assistance projects undertaken as a result of Hurricane Sandy from October 27 through November 8, 2012. May 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Annapolis, MD. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Oklahoma City, OK, on May 26. The White House announced that the President will travel to Asbury Park, NJ, on May 28. May 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Tinker Air Force Base, OK, where he met with servicemembers whose off-base homes were affected by severe storms on May 20. Then, he traveled to Moore, OK. In the afternoon, the President toured neighborhoods damaged by an F–5 tornado with Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate , and local officials. Then, at Moore Fire Department Station No. 1, he met with first responders, Federal and local officials, and the families of Plaza Towers Elementary students who died in the tornado.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Tinker Air Force Base, where he greeted National Weather Service forecasters before boarding Air Force One. He then returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on May 29 and 30. May 27 In the morning, in the State Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a breakfast in honor of Gold Star families. Later, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a Memorial Day wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery. In the afternoon, at Section 60 of Arlington National Cemetery, the President and Mrs. Obama met with cemetery visitors. Then, they returned to Washington, DC. May 28 In the morning, the President traveled to Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ. Upon arrival, he and Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey traveled to Point Pleasant Beach, NJ. While en route on board Marine One, they toured areas damaged by Hurricane Sandy in October 2012. In the afternoon, at the Point Pleasant Beach boardwalk, the President greeted sand sculptor Ed Jarrett and played an arcade game. Then, he traveled to Asbury Park, NJ, where he met with State and local officials. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC, where, upon arrival on the South Lawn, he greeted students from Union Beach Memorial School in Union Beach, NJ, and Long Beach Island Grade School in Surf City, NJ. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will welcome Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the White House on May 31. May 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. In the evening, the President traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will welcome President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil to the White House on October 23. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by flooding from April 22 through May 16. May 30 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President attended the annual hurricane preparedness briefing. May 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President and Vice President Joe Biden will host the National Conference on Mental Health at the White House on June 3. The White House announced that the President will welcome the Super Bowl XLVII champion Baltimore Ravens to the White House on June 5. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 17 through 30. June 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mooresville, NC, on June 6. June 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Jose, CA, on June 6. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on June 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Rancho Mirage, CA, to meet with President Xi Jinping of China on June 7. The President announced his intention to appoint Kenny Alameda as U.S. Commissioner on the Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. The President announced his intention to appoint Joye Frost as Director of the Office for Victims of Crime at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to appoint Marlene Sallo as Staff Director at the  U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Wolf as a member of the  President's Export Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Steve Bennett and Angel Ruiz as members of the  President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. June 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The White House announced that the President will travel to Berlin, Germany, on June 19. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas C. Carper to be a Director on the Board of Directors of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK). The President announced his intention to nominate Avi Garbow to be General Counsel of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Howard A. Husock to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. June 6 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Mooresville, NC, where, upon arrival, he toured Mooresville Middle School. Later, he traveled to Palo Alto, CA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to Portola Valley, CA. Later, he traveled to San Jose, CA. June 7 In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA. Later, at the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands in Rancho Mirage, he participated in a photo opportunity with President Xi Jinping of China. In the evening, at the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands, the President and President Xi had a working dinner. The President announced that he has nominated Jeffrey A. Meyer to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut. The President announced that he has nominated Timothy L. Brooks to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Arkansas. June 8 In the morning, at the Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands, the President met with President Xi Jinping of China. Later, he participated in a departure tea with President Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan. June 9 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. June 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, on June 12. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on June 12. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Baer to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador, at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael G. Carroll to be Inspector General at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate James Cole, Jr., to be General Counsel at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Keith M. Harper to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations Human Rights Council, with the rank of Ambassador, at the Department of State The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine E. Lhamon to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen W. Preston to be General Counsel at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark T. Nethery to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Anthony C. Funkhouser as a Commissioner for the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Betsey Stevenson as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. June 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Later, in the Family Theater, he hosted a screening of the film "The Presidents' Gatekeepers." The White House announced that the President will welcome the WNBA Champion Indiana Fever to the White House on June 14. June 12 In the morning, the President traveled to Boston, MA. Upon arrival, accompanied by Rep. Edward J. Markey, he traveled to Charlie's Sandwich Shoppe, where he purchased lunch and visited with patrons. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Reggie Lewis Track and Athletic Center, where he met with family members of fallen Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer Sean A. Collier, who was killed on April 19 in pursuit of the suspected bombers of the April 15 terrorist attack in Boston, MA. Later, he traveled to Miami, FL. He then traveled to Miami Beach, FL.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs, President Obama's recent meetings with President Xi Jinping of China, peace and security efforts in the Asia-Pacific region, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephanie Sanders Sullivan to be Ambassador to the Republic of the Congo.  The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Y. Yun to be Ambassador to Malaysia. The President announced his intention to appoint Avril D. Haines as Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. The President announced his intention to appoint Michael J. Morell as a member of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. June 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Rep. John D. Dingell, Jr. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with families of victims of the December 14, 2012, shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Sens. Patrick J. Leahy, Charles E. Schumer, Richard J. Durbin, Robert Menendez, and Michael F. Bennet to discuss immigration reform legislation. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from May 22 through 26. June 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later. in the State Dining Room, the President hosted a Father's Day luncheon with members of the Becoming a Man program at Hyde Park Academy High School in Chicago, IL. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President participated in a videoconference with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President Francois Hollande of France, Prime Minister Enrico Letta, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the upcoming Group of Eight (G–8) nations summit in Northern Ireland, the situation in Syria, and democracy efforts in Libya.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado to discuss the recent wildfires in the Black Forest and Royal Gorge areas, express his condolences for the loss of life and extensive damage, and offer continued Federal assistance to State and local response efforts. The President announced his intention to nominate Liliana Ayalde to be Ambassador to Brazil. The President announced his intention to nominate James Costos to be Ambassador to Spain. The President announced his intention to nominate John B. Emerson to be Ambassador to Germany. The President announced his intention to nominate Rufus Gifford to be Ambassador to Denmark. The President announced his intention to nominate Ken Hackett to be Ambassador to the Holy See. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia M. Haslach to be Ambassador to Ethiopia. The President declared a disaster under the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as amended, due to the ongoing severe drought in the northern half of the country. June 16 In the afternoon, in the Library, the President participated in an interview with Charlie Rose of PBS's "Charlie Rose" program. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Belfast, Northern Ireland, arriving the following morning.  While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea to discuss regional security issues and the situation on the Korean Peninsula.  June 17 In the morning, upon arrival at Belfast International Airport, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Belfast Waterfront convention center.  Later in the morning, the President traveled to Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, where, at the Lough Erne Resort, he visited with staff members. In the afternoon, at Enniskillen Integrated Primary School, the President and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom visited with teachers and students. Then, he returned to the Lough Erne Resort, where he met with Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy. Later, he participated in an official arrival ceremony for leaders attending the Group of Eight (G–8) summit. Then, he participated in the G–8 summit's first plenary session. In the evening, the President participated in a G–8 summit working dinner. He remained overnight at the Lough Erne Resort.  June 18 In the morning, the President attended the second plenary session of the G–8 summit.  Then, he participated in an official photograph with G–8 summit leaders. Later, he participated in a separate photo opportunity with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. Then, he attended the third G–8 summit plenary session. In the afternoon, the President participated in a photo opportunity with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland. Then, he participated in a photo opportunity with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico. Later, he had a working lunch with G–8 leaders, followed by a meeting with Prime Minister Cameron, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President François Hollande of France, Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy, and Prime Minister Ali Zaydan of Libya. Then, he participated in the concluding plenary session of the G–8 summit. Later in the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Berlin, Germany, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Ritz-Carlton, Berlin hotel, where they remained overnight. The President declared a major disaster in Michigan and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding from April 16 through May 14. June 19 In the morning, at the Ritz-Carlton, Berlin hotel, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he traveled to Bellevue Palace, the residence of President Joachim Gauck of Germany , where he signed the guest book, participated in an arrival ceremony with military honors, and met with President Gauck. Later, he traveled to the German Chancellery, where he met Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.  In the afternoon, at the German Chancellery, the President had a working lunch with Chancellor Merkel. Then, he traveled to the Lindencorso building, where he met with Mayor Klaus Wowereit of Berlin and signed the Golden Book of Berlin. Later, he met with Peer Steinbrueck, the Social Democratic Party candidate for Chancellor in the upcoming elections.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to the Ritz-Carlton, Berlin hotel. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Schloss Charlottenburg, where, in the Rotunda, they posed with Chancellor Merkel and her husband Joachim Sauer for an official photograph. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. June 20 The President announced that he has nominated James Donato and Beth L. Freeman to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Jennifer P. May-Parker to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. June 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Erik Spoelstra, head coach of the National Basketball Association's Miami Heat, to congratulate him on his team's victory over the San Antonio Spurs in the 2013 NBA Finals. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President met with the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Lee E. Goodman and Ann Ravel to be Commissioners of the Federal Election Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Denise Bauer to be Ambassador to Belgium. The President announced his intention to nominate John Berry to be Ambassador to Australia. The President announced his intention to nominate Reuben E. Brigety II to be U.S. Representative to the African Union with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate James "Wally" Brewster, Jr., to be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel A. Clune to be Ambassador to Laos. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Thomas-Greenfield to be Assistant Secretary for African Affairs at the State Department. The President announced his intention to nominate David Hale to be Ambassador to Lebanon. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Hammer to be Ambassador to Chile. The President announced his intention to nominate Terence McCulley to be Ambassador to Cote d'Ivoire. The President announced his intention to nominate Terrell McSweeny to be a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Brian A. Nichols to be Ambassador to Peru. The President announced his intention to nominate David D. Pearce to be Ambassador to Greece. The President announced his intention to nominate Lori Gilbert to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The President announced his intention to nominate Jon T. Rymer to be Inspector General at the Department of Defense. The President announced that he has appointed Caroline M. Atkinson as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Adviser for International and Economic Affairs. June 22 The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks on climate change at Georgetown University on June 24.  June 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situations in Syria and Turkey and joint counterterrorism efforts. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew on Acting Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Daniel I. Werfel's report on the Internal Revenue Service's process for approving tax-exempt status. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II and Director of Legislative Affairs Miguel E. Rodriguez. June 25 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss the transition of security operations to Afghan forces, Afghan-led peace and reconciliation efforts, preparations for Afghanistan's 2014 elections, and Afghanistan-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with congressional leaders. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding from May 17 through June 11. The President declared a major disaster for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and ordered Federal aid to supplement tribal recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from May 25 through June 1. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from May 30 through June 3. The President made additional disaster assistance available to New Jersey by authorizing an increase in Federal funding for public assistance projects undertaken as a result of Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through November 8, 2012. June 26 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Dakar, Senegal, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with White House Counsel Kathryn H. Ruemmler to discuss the U.S. Supreme Court's rulings on the Defense of Marriage Act in United States v. Windsor and California's Proposition 8 in Hollingsworth v. Perry. He then had a telephone conversation with Edith Windsor, the plaintiff in United States v. Windsor, followed by a teleconference call with Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign, and Kristin Perry, Sandra Stier, Paul Katami, and Jeffrey Zarillo, the plaintiffs in Hollingsworth v. Perry, to congratulate them on their victories in the cases. In the evening, upon arrival in Dakar, Senegal, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Radisson Blu Hotel, where they remained overnight. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Zagreb, Croatia, to attend the celebration of the accession of Croatia to the European Union on June 30: Kenneth H. Merten (head of delegation); and Philip T. Reeker. The President announced that he has nominated Pedro A. Delgado Hernández to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. The President announced that he has nominated Bruce Howe Hendricks and Alison R. Lee to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina. June 27 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Presidential Palace in Dakar, Senegal, where, upon arrival, he had a restricted bilateral meeting followed by an expanded bilateral meeting with President Macky Sall of Senegal. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs.Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Goree Island, Senegal. They were accompanied by President Macky Sall of Senegal and his wife Marieme Faye Sall.  Later in the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters returned to the Radisson Blu Hotel in Dakar, where the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Sens. Lindsey O. Graham, John S. McCain III, Michael F. Bennet, and Charles E. Schumer to congratulate them on Senate passage of immigration reform legislation. He also had separate telephone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss immigration reform.  The President announced his intention to nominate Krysta L. Harden to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Alejandro N. Mayorkas to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald J. Binz to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and upon appointment, to designate him as Chair. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Bonnie to be Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Ellen C. Herbst to be Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine M. O'Regan to be Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan J. Rabern to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Financial Management and Comptroller at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Steve A. Linick to be Inspector General at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick H. Gaspard to be Ambassador to South Africa. The President announced his intention to nominate James C. Swan to be Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The President announced his intention to nominate Kirk W.B. Wagar to be Ambassador to Singapore. The President announced his intention to nominate Alexa Lange Wesner to be Ambassador to Austria. The President announced that he has nominated Kenneth A. Polite, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana. June 28 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Johannesburg, South Africa, arriving in the evening. In the evening, upon arrival in Johannesburg, the President traveled to the U.S. consulate, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel. Then, he traveled to the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, Johannesburg in Sandton, where he remained overnight. During the evening, at the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, Johannesburg, the President met with senior advisers and had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Egypt. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornado, and flooding from May 24 through 31. June 29 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Pretoria, South Africa. Upon arrival at Union Buildings, they were greeted by President Jacob Zuma of South Africa and his wife Thobeka S. Madiba-Zuma. Later, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Johannesburg, South Africa. Later, at the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory, he met with family members of former President Nelson R. Mandela of South Africa and signed a copy of President Mandela's book "Conversations With Myself." Later, at the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, Johannesburg in Sandton, he and Mrs. Obama had a telephone conversation with former President Mandela's wife Graça Machel to discuss former President Mandela's health and express his support. In the evening, at the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, the President met with Chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma of the African Union Commission. Then, he traveled to Pretoria, South Africa. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to Johannesburg, South Africa. June 30 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Cape Town, South Africa. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia toured the Robben Island, where former President Nelson R. Mandela of South Africa and political prisoners were held during the Apartheid period. Then, they returned to Cape Town. Also in the afternoon, at the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation Youth Center, the President and Archbishop Emeritus of Cape Town Desmond M. Tutu toured classrooms and met with students. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Table Bay Hotel in Cape Town, where they remained overnight. July 1 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, arriving in the afternoon. While en route, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia to congratulate him on his return to office and discuss Australia-U.S. relations. Then, he had a telephone conversation with former Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard to thank her for her work as Prime Minister and wish her well in future endeavors.  Also while en route, the President received an intelligence briefing from Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken. In the afternoon, upon arrival at Julius Nyere International Airport in Dar es Salaam, Tanazania, the President participated in an arrival ceremony with President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete of Tanzania. Later, at State House, he and Mrs. Obama participated in a welcoming ceremony with President Kikwete of Tanzania and his wife Salma Kikwete. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Janice K. Brewer of Arizona to receive an update on the wildfires affecting her State and to offer his condolences to the families of the 19 firefighters who lost their lives in the fire. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to express his concerns about the recent political demonstrations and violence in Egypt and encourage President Mursi to resolve the issue through the political process. July 2 In the morning, at the U.S. Embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, the President visited with Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he and former President George W. Bush participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the memorial for the 1998 Embassy bombing. Later, he and President Bush met with survivors and family members of the victims of the bombing. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia, traveled to Dakar, Senegal. Then, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from May 19 through June 14. July 3 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the surveillance activities allegedly conducted by the National Security Agency. Chancellor Merkel also offered her condolences to the families of the 19 firefighters who lost their lives in the wildfires in Arizona. Also during the day, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security team met to discuss the situation in Egypt. July 5 In the morning, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. July 6 During the day, the President had a conference call with his National Security Council to discuss the situation in Egypt. Also during the day, the President received an update by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco on the crash landing of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 in San Francisco, CA.  July 7 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.  July 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they held a Cabinet meeting. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Health and Human Service Kathleen Sebelius, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Marilyn B. Tavenner, White House staff members, and leaders from the health and technology fields to discuss the role of information technology and innovations in improving the cost and quality of health care.  The White House announced that the President will award the 2012 National Medals of Arts and the National Humanities Medals on July 10. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, to attend the inauguration of President Tsakhia Elbegdorj of Mongolia on July 10: Piper A. W. Campbell (head of delegation): and Tomicah Tillemann. The President announced his intention to nominate Wanda F. Felton to be First Vice President at the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis V. McGinn to be Assistant Secretary for Energy, Installations and Environment at the Department of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Tomasz P. Malinowski to be Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Evan Ryan to be Assistant Secretary for Educational and Cultural Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark B. Childress to be Ambassador to Tanzania. The President announced his intention to nominate Carlos R. Moreno to be Ambassador to Belize. The President announced his intention to appoint Anthony T. Pierce as a member of the District of Columbia Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure.  July 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in Room 350 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with the members of the Congressional Black Caucus. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President dropped by the Kids' State Dinner luncheon for the winners of the 2013 Healthy Lunchtime Challenge. Later, in the Oval Office, he had separate telephone conversations with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates to discuss the situation in Egypt and U.S. relations with their respective countries. Then, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later in the afternoon, in the Situation Room, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel.  The President announced his intention to nominate Margaret L. Cummisky to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael K. Yudin to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew W. Barzun to be Ambassador to Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The President announced his intention to nominate John Hoover to be Ambassador to Sierra Leone. The President announced his intention to nominate Crystal Nix-Hines to be U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate John R. Phillips to be Ambassador to Italy and San Marino. July 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  Then, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in Room 350 of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he and Vice President Biden met with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry.  The White House announced that the President will host the 5,000th Daily Point of Light Award ceremony, with former President George H.W. Bush, at the White House on July 15. The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding beginning May 19 through June 3. July 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Sens. John S. McCain III and Charles E. Schumer to discuss immigration reform. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the 1963 Loyola University of Chicago Ramblers championship basketball team, in honor of the 50th anniversary of the Ramblers' championship title and to acknowledge the role they had in breaking down racial barriers. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with co-chairs of the Chinese delegation to the U.S.-China Strategic Economic Dialogue, Vice Premier Wang Yang and State Councilor Yang Jiechi. In the evening, at the Jefferson Hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee event. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Truong Tan Sang of Vietnam to the White House on July 25. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Antonios Samaras of Greece to the White House on August 8. The White House announced that the President has nominated William W. Nooter to be a judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. July 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to discuss Russian-U.S. bilateral relations,  cooperation in counterterrorism efforts, and the status of former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. He also had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to express his warm wishes on the occasion of Ramadan, Saudi Arabian-U.S. relations and the situation in Syria. The President has announced his intention to nominate Gregory D. Winfree to be Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President has announced his intention to nominate Rhonda S. Schmidtlein to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission. The President has announced his intention to appoint Angelique M. Crumbly as Assistant Administrator for Management at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President has announced his intention to appoint John B. Nathman as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy.  The President has announced his intention to appoint Rion J. Ramirez as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding during May 17 through June 16. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding during June 28 through July 4. July 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Red Room, the President and Mrs. Obama had lunch with former President George H.W. Bush, former First Lady Barbara Bush, and members of the Bush family. July 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Blue Room, he taped separate interviews with Spanish language news anchors from the Dallas, TX; Denver, CO; Los Angeles, CA; and New York City media markets. In the afternoon, the President met with Sens. Lamar Alexander, Richard M. Burr, Thomas A. Coburn, Thomas R. Harkin, Joseph Manchin III, and Angus S. King, Jr., to discuss Federal student loan rates. The White House announced that the President will welcome the NCAA Champion Louisville Cardinals to the White House on July 23. The President announced his intention to nominate Kent Hirozawa and Nancy Schiffer to be members of the National Labor Relations Board. July 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch.  The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks on the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act at the White House on July 18. July 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situations in Egypt, Iran, and Syria, peace efforts with the Palestinians, and Israel-U.S. security cooperation. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn Hessler Radelet as Director of the Peace Corps. The President announced his intention to nominate Beth Robinson to be Under Secretary of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Jessica Garfola Wright to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. The President announced his intention to nominate Nisha Desai Biswal to be Assistant Secretary for South Asian Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Julia Frifield to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Frank A. Rose to be Assistant Secretary for Verification and Compliance at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott S. Dahl to be Inspector General of the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Tim Broas to be U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands. The President announced his intention to nominate Adam M. Scheinman to be Special Representative of the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the rank of Ambassador, at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Pius Pietrzyk to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. July 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, Later, in the East Room, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a Diplomatic Corps Reception for the foreign diplomatic corps. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding from May 29 through June 10. July 21 The White House announced that the President will travel to Galesburg, IL, and Warrensburg, MO, on July 24. July 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will travel to Jacksonville, FL, on July 25. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the Korean War Veterans Memorial to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Korean war armistice on July 27. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to South Korea to attend ceremonies commemorating the 60th anniversary of the Korean war armistice on July 27: Sung Y. Kim (head of delegation); James D. Thurman; James P. Zumwalt; David F. Helvey; and David R. Stilwell. July 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to discuss issues affecting the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012 World Series Champion San Francisco Giants to the White House on July 29. July 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Galesburg, IL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Warrensburg, MO. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcel J. Lettre II to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Intelligence at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. Simon to be Associate Director for Energy and Environment at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Caroline B. Kennedy to be Ambassador to Japan. The President announced his intention to appoint Betty S. Sutton as Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. July 25 In the morning, the President traveled to Jacksonville, FL, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he met with Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx. In the afternoon, the President and Secretary Foxx toured the TraPac Berth 16 facility at JAXPORT's Dames Point Marine Terminal with JAXPORT interim Chief Executive Officer Roy A. Schleicher, TraPac, Inc., Regional Vice President and General Manager Dennis F. Kelly, and International Longshoremen's Association Local 1408 Representative Fred D. Wakefield. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2013 NCAA women's basketball champion University of Connecticut Huskies to the White House on July 31. The President announced his intention to nominate Tony Hammond to be a Commissioner on the Postal Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Lu to be Ambassador to Albania. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Sherman to be Ambassador to Portugal. The President announced his intention to nominate Leslie E. Bains to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. The President announced that he has nominated Vince C. Chhabria to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated the following individuals to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan: Matthew F. Leitman; Judith E. Levy; Laurie J. Michelson; and Linda V. Parker. The President announced that he has nominated James M. Moody, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas. The President declared a major disaster in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 20 through 26. July 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chattanooga, TN, on July 30. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to Staff Sergeant Ty M. Carter, USA, on August 26. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding on June 13. The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the Royal Gorge Fire from June 11 through 16. The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the Black Forest Fire from June 11 through 21. July 27 In the morning, at the Korean War Veterans Memorial, the President participated in a wreath-laying ceremony to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the end of the Korean war. July 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. In the afternoon, on the patio outside the Oval Office, the President had lunch with former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez, civil rights leaders, and State and local officials to discuss strengthening voting rights. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia, President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania, and President Andris Berzins of Latvia to the White House on August 30. July 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Israeli and Palestinian negotiators to discuss the resumption of direct Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations. Participating in the meeting were Minister of Justice Tzipora "Tzipi" Livni and Yitzhak Molcho of Israel and Chief Negotiator Saeb Erekat and Mohammed Shtayyeh of the Palestinian Authority, as well as Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, U.S. Special Envoy for Israeli-Palestinian Negotiations Martin S. Indyk, and White House Coordinator for the Middle East Philip H. Gordon. Later, the President traveled to Chattanooga, TN, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in Chattanooga, TN, the President toured the Amazon Fulfillment Center, met with employees, and participated in an interview with Amazon Kindle Singles editor David Blum. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The President announced his intention to nominate L. Paige Marvel to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth L. Mossman to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth R. Weinstein to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael L. Connor to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert O. Blake, Jr., to be Ambassador to Indonesia. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas F. Daughton to be Ambassador to Namibia. The President announced his intention to nominate John L. Estrada be Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago. The President announced his intention to nominate Phillip S. Goldberg to be Ambassador to the Philippines. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael S. Hoza to be Ambassador to Camaroon. The President announced his intention to nominate Noah B. Mamet to be Ambassador to Argentina. The President announced his intention to nominate Eunice S. Reddick to be Ambassador to Niger. July 31 In the morning, at the U.S. Capitol, the President met separately with the House Democratic Caucus and the Senate Democratic Caucus. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The President announced his intention to nominate France A. Cordova to be Director of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Sarah Bloom Raskin to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Sylvia I. Garcia to be Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jo E. Handelsman to be Associate Director for Science at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory B. Starr to be Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen C. Stanton to be Ambassador to Timor-Leste. The President announced his intention to nominate Amy J. Hyatt to be Ambassador to Palau. August 1 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Members of Congress to discuss programs conducted under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Later, in the East Room, he hosted a reception honoring the 50th anniversary of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to discuss the Middle East peace process and commend their leadership in resuming final status negotiations. The President announced his intention to nominate John A. Koskinen to be Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah Lee James to be Secretary of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Christopher Giancarlo to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. O'Rielly to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Pizzella to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate R. Gil Kerlikowske to be  Commissioner of Customs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Frank G. Klotz to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security and Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Sarah Sewell to be Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Suzanne E. Spaulding to be Under Secretary at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn D. Sullivan to be Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere and Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Dynan to be Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter J. Kadzik to be Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne W. Patterson to be Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Spoonster Schwartz to be Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Stevan E. Bunnell to be General Counsel at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven Croley to be General Counsel at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard F. Griffin to be General Counsel at the National Labor Relations Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah A.P. Hersman to be a member and Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher A. Hart to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Dwight L. Bush, Sr., to be Ambassador to Morocco. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela K. Hamamoto to be U.S. Representative to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew T. Harrington to be Ambassador to Lesotho. The President announced that he has nominated Michelle T. Friedland and John B. Owens to be judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Nancy L. Moritz to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Gary L. Blankinship to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Robert L. Hobbs to be U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Amos Rojas, Jr., to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Peter C. Tobin to be U.S. marshal for the Southern District of Ohio. The President announced that he has nominated Christopher R. Cooper to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Daniel D. Crabtree to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas. The President announced that he has nominated M. Douglas Harpool to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Sheryl H. Lipman to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Gerald A. McHugh, Jr., and Edward G. Smith to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 21 through 28. August 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to Phoenix, AZ, on August 6. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by an explosion from April 17 through 20. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 19 through 29. The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from July 2 through 7. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, and landslides from June 26 through July 3. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from June 25 through July 11. August 3 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. Later, he received a briefing from National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on preparedness efforts in response to indications that the Al Qaida terrorist organization or its affiliates were planning to attack U.S. citizens or installations, especially in the Middle East, North Africa, or South Asia.  August 4 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on August 6 and 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Camp Pendleton, CA, on August 7. August 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President met with former Negro League baseball players. August 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Chandler, AZ, arriving in afternoon. In the afternoon, the President and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun L.S. Donovan toured the facilities of Erickson Construction. Then, he traveled to Phoenix, AZ.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Burbank, CA. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to the Hilton Woodland Hills hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando, FL, on August 10. August 7 In the morning, the President traveled to Camp Pendleton, CA.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situations in Syria and Egypt to offer Prime Minister Erdogan and the Turkish people his best wishes on the beginning of the Ramazan Bayrami holiday. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya to express his support following the fire at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya, and to recognize the commemoration of the 15th anniversary of the terrorist bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the Lincoln Memorial as part of the "Let Freedom Ring" ceremony to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Stockholm, Sweden, on September 4 and 5. The White House announced that the President will travel to St. Petersburg, Russia, on September 5 and 6 to attend the Group of Twenty (G–20) summit. August 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Martha's Vineyard, MA, on August 10. The President announced his intention to appoint Alfred Valenzuela, Isaac N. "Ike" Skelton IV, and Libby H. O'Connell as members of the World War I Centennial Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Mark Hertling and Anthony M. Robles as members of the President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition. The President announced his intention to appoint Matrice Ellis-Kirk as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced his intention to appoint Bruce Cole as a member of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission. The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, and mudslides from June 20 through 28. August 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Asuncion, Paraguay, to attend the Inauguration of President Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara on August 15: Ernest J. Moniz (head of delegation); James H. Thessin; Miriam Sapiro; and Francisco Sánchez. August 10 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Orlando, FL. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Chilmark, MA. August 12 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to appoint Carla A. Harris as Chairperson of the National Women's Business Council. The President announced his intention to appoint S. Fitzgerald Haney and Beth Heifetz as members of the U. S. Holocaust Memorial Council. August 13 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Nancy's Restaurant & Snack Bar in Oak Bluffs, MA, where he bought lunch and visited with staff and patrons. Then, he returned to Chilmark, MA. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 1973 Super Bowl Champion Miami Dolphins to the White House on August 20 to honor them for their historic undefeated 1972 season. August 14 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. August 15 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he held a conference call briefing with his national security team to discuss the situation in Egypt and Egypt-U.S. relations. August 16 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing and also received an update on the situation in Egypt.  August 17 Over the weekend, the President had a telephone conversation with Vice President Joe Biden to discuss the health of the Vice President's son Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia will return to Washington, DC, on August 18. August 18 In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC. August 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Richard A. Cordray, Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary S. Gensler, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg, National Credit Union Administration Board Chairman Deborah Matz, Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White, Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew, and senior advisers to discuss strengthening the financial system, implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, housing reform, interagency coordination, and the Federal budget. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to S. Sgt. Ty M. Carter, USA, on August 26. The White House announced that the President will travel to Buffalo, NY, and Syracuse, NY, on August 22. August 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry, Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel, and other members of his national security team to discuss the situation in Egypt. During the day, the President received a briefing on the wildfires affecting Western States. The White House announced that the President will travel to Binghamton, NY, on August 23. The White House announced that the President and Vice President Joe Biden will travel to Scranton, PA, on August 23. August 21 In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with directors of State-based health insurance exchanges, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, and other administration officials to discuss implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. August 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Buffalo, NY. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Rochester, NY, where, at Magnolia's Deli and Cafe, he and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan had lunch and participated in a roundtable discussion on college affordability with a group of students and parents. Then, he traveled to Seneca Falls, NY, where he toured the Women's Rights National Historical Park Visitor Center, greeted park visitors and staff, and presented the center with a copy of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 and a signed copy of his remarks delivered at the bill-signing ceremony. Later, he traveled to Syracuse, NY. Also in the afternoon, the President was briefed by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough on the disruption of the NASDAQ stock exchange. In the evening, at Henninger High School in Syracuse, NY, the President participated in an interview with Chris Cuomo of CNN's "New Day" program. Later, he traveled to Auburn, NY, where he remained overnight. August 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Binghamton, NY, arriving in the afternoon. While en route, he stopped at Tully Central High School in Tully, NY, where he greeted members of the girls' and boys' soccer teams. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Scranton, PA. While en route, he stopped at Bingham's Family Restaurant in Lenox, PA, where, joined by Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr., he greeted patrons and employees and purchased pies. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 24 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with the National Security Council to discuss the reported use of chemical weapons near Damascus, Syria, by the Syrian Government on August 21 and to review options for a response. Then, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. August 25 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown of California to receive an update on the wildfires in California, to express his gratitude for firefighters and first responders, and to reiterate his commitment to support Federal ongoing State and local response efforts. August 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with African American religious leaders to discuss the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom and how civil rights and equality affect education, employment, health care, and voting. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the 2013 Urban Debate National Tournament champions. Then, also in the Oval Office, he participated in separate interviews with Tom Joyner and Sybil Wilkes of the "Tom Joyner Morning Show" and Yolanda Adams of "The Yolanda Adams Morning Show". In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. August 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., met with mayors from around the country to discuss efforts to reduce youth violence. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. In the evening, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. August 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Ambassador Donald E. Booth, Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in an interview with Gwen Ifill and Judy Woodruff of PBS's NewsHour program. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a U.S. response. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a U.S. response. August 29 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. The President announced his intention to appoint Milford W. Donaldson as Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Clement A. Price as Vice Chairman of Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Harry P. Hallock and Tom Robinson as members of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. The President declared a major disaster for the Karuk Tribe and ordered  Federal aid to supplement tribal efforts in the area affected by a wildfire from July 29 through August 2. August 30 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Syria. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the continued violence in Syria, the reported use of chemical weapons by its Government on August 21, and options for a response by the international community. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with his senior advisers to discuss the situation in Syria. The President announced his intention to appoint Gerd F. Glang as Commissioner of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Lynnae M. Ruttledge as a member of the Commission on Long-Term Care. The President announced his intention to appoint James J. Zogby as a member of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. August 31 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the situation in Syria. September 2 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with Sen. John S. McCain III to discuss the situation in Syria.  In the evening the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to discuss their concern about the use of chemical weapons in Syria and Japan-U.S. relations.  September 3 In the morning, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden, met with Members of Congress to discuss the situation in Syria. In the afternoon, in the Private Dinning Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. In the evening the President traveled to Stockholm, Sweden, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to appoint Huban A. Gowadia as Director of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Geoffrey L. Haskett as a Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the U.S.-Russia Polar Bear Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Gary Frazer as an Alternate Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the U.S.-Russia Polar Bear Commission. The President announced that he has appointed Douglas Frantz as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of State. September 4 In the morning, upon arrival at the Stockholm Arlanda Airport, the President participated in an arrival ceremony with Deputy Prime Minister Jan Bjorklund of Sweden, other Swedish Cabinet Members, and U.S. Ambassador to Sweden Mark Brzezinski and his wife Natalia. Then, he traveled to the Grand Hotel in Stockholm. In the afternoon, the President visited the KTH Royal Institute of Technology campus library, where he and Prime Minister John Fredrik Reinfeldt toured a renewable energy research exposition. Then, he returned to the Grand Hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the Sager House, residence of Prime Minister Reinfeldt, where he had dinner with the leaders of several Nordic nations. Later, he returned to the Grand Hotel. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from August 8 through 14.  September 5 In the morning, the President traveled to the Royal Palace in Stockholm, where he met with King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden. Later, he traveled to Saint Petersburg, Russia, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Constantine Palace complex, where he participated in an official arrival ceremony with  Group of Twenty (G–20) leaders. Then, he attended a G–20 working session. In the evening, the President traveled to the Grand Peterhof Palace, where he had a working dinner with G–20 leaders. Later, he returned to the Constantine Palace complex. September 6 In the afternoon, at the Constantine Palace complex, the President participated in a second G–20 working session on investing in growth and job creation. Then, he participated in a photo opportunity with G–20 leaders. Later, he had a working lunch with G–20 leaders. In the evening, the President traveled to the Crowne Plaza St. Petersburg Airport hotel, where he participated in a roundtable discussion with Russian civil society leaders. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome Amir Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah of Kuwait on September 13. The President announced his intention to appoint Gina S. Farrisee as Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to appoint Megan H. Mack as an Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Melissa Savage and C. Kenneth Smith as members of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust. The President announced his intention to appoint David Sanders as Chairman of the Commission To Eliminate Child Abuse and Neglect Fatalities  The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Commission To Eliminate Child Abuse and Neglect Fatalities: Theresa M. Covington; Patricia M. Martin; Michael R. Petit; Jennifer Rodriguez; and David Rubin. The President announced his intention to appoint Rosemary A. Joyce as a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint Alice T. Germond and Azita Raji as members of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from August 2 through 14. September 7 In the afternoon, the President received an update from White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough on continuing efforts to consult with Members of Congress on the reported use of chemical weapons in Syria. Over the weekend, the President had separate telephone conversations with Members of Congress to discuss the reported use of chemical weapons in Syria. September 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to discuss the reported use of chemical weapons in Syria. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he stopped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and members of the Congressional Black Caucus.  Later in the afternoon, the President taped separate television interviews with Savannah Gutherie of NBC's "Today" program, Wolf Blitzer of CNN's "The Situation Room" program, Scott Pelley of CBS's "Evening News" program, Chris Wallace of FOX's "FOX News Sunday" program, Diane Sawyer of ABC's "World News" program, and Gwen Ifill of PBS's "NewsHour" program. September 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom and President François Hollande of France to discuss Russia's proposal to place Syria's chemical weapons under international control. In the afternoon, at the U.S. Capitol, the President had separate meetings with the Senate Democratic Caucus and the Senate Republican Conference. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with senior administration officials to discuss preparedness efforts and the overall security posture in advance of the 12th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The President announced his intention to nominate Beth F. Cobert to be Deputy Director for Management at Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate Sloan D. Gibson to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Heather A. Higginbottom to be Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Jim Shelton to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Jo Ann Rooney to be Under Secretary of the Navy at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul N. Jaenichen, Sr., to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate David Weil to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate John P. Carlin to be Assistant Attorney General for National Security at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Bradley Crowell to be Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard G. Frank to be Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Esther Kia'aina to be Assistant Secretary for Insular Areas at the Department of the Interior.  The President announced his intention to nominate Michael D. Lumpkin to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher Smith to be Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Puneet Talwar to be Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Jay Williams to be Assistant Secretary for Economic Development at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Jamie Morin to be Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria M. Baecher Wassmer to be Chief Financial Officer at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Larry E. André, Jr. to be Ambassador to Mauritania. The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony L. Gardner to be U.S. Representative to the European Union. The President announced his intention to nominate Helen M. La Lime to be Ambassador to Angola. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael A. Lawson to be U.S. Representative on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization. The President announced his intention to nominate Luis G. Moreno to be Ambassador to Jamaica. The President announced his intention to nominate George J. Tsunis to be Ambassador to Norway. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel W. Yohannes to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara Lee and Mark Meadows to be U.S. Representatives to the 68th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth F. Bagley, Theodore Strickland, and Stephen N. Zack to be Alternate U.S. Representatives to the 68th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.  September 11 In the morning, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama, along with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill Biden, participated in a moment of silence to mark the 12th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, at Food and Friends, the President participated in a service project. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister-designate Tony Abbott of Australia to congratulate him on his coalition's victory in recent parliamentary elections and discuss Australia-U.S. relations and the situation in Syria. He also had a telephone conversation with outgoing Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia to thank him for his friendship, leadership, and support of Australia-U.S. relations and discuss the situation in Syria. September 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy to the White House on October 16. The President announced his intention to nominate Cynthia H. Akuetteh to be Ambassador to Gabon and Sao Tome and Principe. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric T. Schultz to be Ambassador to Zambia. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Arroyo to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The President announced his intention to nominate Camilla C. Feibelman to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Leslie G. Bowman and Wendy A. Cooper as members of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House. The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides beginning on September 11 and continuing. September 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Library, he taped a television interview with George Stephanopoulos for ABC's "This Week" program for later broadcast.  In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with labor leaders. The White House announced the President will travel to Indonesia, Brunei, Malaysia, and the Philippines from October 6 through 12. September 14 In the morning, the President received a briefing from National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on international diplomatic efforts to resolve the situation in Syria. He also had separate telephone conservations with U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samantha Power and Secretary of State John F. Kerry to discuss Russia's proposal to place Syria's chemical weapons under international control. September 15 The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides beginning on September 11.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado to receive an update on the severe flooding, express his condolences for the loss of life and concern for those still missing, commend the work of first responders in affected communities, and reinforce his commitment to providing Federal assistance to State and local response efforts.  September 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. During the day, the President received several briefings on the shootings at the Washington Navy Yard from Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco and Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Secretary of the Navy Raymond E. Mabus to express his condolences to the families and colleagues of the victims of the Navy Yard shootings and commend the brave Navy personnel and local law enforcement who worked with Federal authorities in responding to the situation. He also called Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey, Jr., to express his gratitude for the FBI's quick response to the shootings, receive an update on the ongoing investigation, and commend the FBI and all Federal agencies involved for their coordination with local officials during the ongoing response. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil to discuss their recent meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, the postponement of President Rousseff's planned October 23 state visit to the U.S., and Brazil-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the scheduled Musica Latina event will be postponed out of respect for the victims of the shootings at the Washington Navy Yard and their families.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on September 30. The White House announced that the President will present the Congressional Medal of Honor to former Capt. William Swenson, USA, on October 15. September 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. Also in the afternoon, the President received a briefing on the September 16 shootings at the Washington Navy Yard from Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey, Jr., and members of his national security team. The White House announced that the President will travel to Liberty, MO, on September 20. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Mali to attend the Inauguration of Ibrahim Boubacar Keita as President on September 19: Mary Beth Leonard (head of delegation); Linda Thomas-Greenfield; and Jack Leslie. The President announced his intention to nominate Tamara W. Ashford to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President announced his intention to nominate Leslie R. Caldwell to be Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Stengel to be Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs at the Department of State. September 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the President's Export Council: Kenneth C. Frazier; Andrés R. Gluski; Marillyn A. Hewson; Vanessa Keitges; Ian C. Read; Virginia M. Rometty; and Arne M. Sorenson. September 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, at the Capital Hilton hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will attend a memorial ceremony for shooting victims and deliver remarks at the Marine Barracks Washington, DC, on September 22.  The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on September 23 and 24. The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce A. Heyman to be U.S. Ambassador to Canada. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn Thomson to be General Counsel at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Whitaker to be U.S. Ambassador to Colombia. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Keckler to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Jim Powell as Representative of the United States to the Southern States Energy Board. The President announced that he has nominated Cynthia A. Bashant to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Stanley A. Bastian to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Washington. The President announced that he has nominated Diane J. Humetawa to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has nominated Jon D. Levy to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine. The President announced that he has nominated Steven P. Logan to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has nominated Douglas L. Rayes to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has nominated Manish S. Shah to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated John J. Tuchi to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. September 20 In the morning, the President traveled to Liberty, MO. Upon arrival, he traveled to the LibertyFord Kansas City Assembly stamping plant, where he toured manufacturing facilities with Ford Motor Co. president and chief executive officer Alan Mulally, stamping plant launch manager Todd Jaranowski, and UAW Local 249 president Jeff Wright and visited with employees.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 22 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya to extend his condolences for the loss of life in the September 21 terrorist attack at Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi, Kenya. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Marine Barracks Washington, D.C., where they met with family members of employees killed in the September 16 shootings at the Washington Navy Yard. September 23 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City , arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to congratulate her party's victory in the September 22 elections. In the evening, in the Jade Room of the Waldorf Astoria New York hotel, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samantha Power, and other staff at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. Then, in the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf Astoria, he and Mrs. Obama attended a reception for visiting heads of state and government attending the U.N. General Assembly. September 24 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to United Nations Headquarters, where he met with U.N. General Assembly President John W. Ashe. In the afternoon, at United Nations Headquarters, the President met with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Largo, MD, on September 26. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven Anthony to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan McCue to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Debra L. Miller to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine A. Novelli to be Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment at the Department of State. The President announced he has nominated Mark G. Mastroianni and Indira Talwani to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated David J. Barron to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. September 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with mayors, county officials, and State legislators to discuss implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The President announced his intention to appoint Marcelite Harris and Arlen D. Jameson as members of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth Young McNally and Patrick J. Murphy as members of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint Sally Susman as a member of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board. The President announced he has nominated Theodore D. Chuang and George J. Hazel to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from July 3 through 13. September 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Largo, MD. Later, he returned to the Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, in the Gallatin Room of the Jefferson hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee event. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan to the White House on October 23. The President announced his intention to nominate Dana J. Hyde to be Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark E. Lopes to be U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. The President announced his intention to appoint Renée J. James as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be General Trustees on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Frank F. Islam; Amalia Perea Mahoney; Shonda L. Rhimes; David M. Rubenstein; Alexandra C. Stanton; Walter F. Ulloa. September 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hassan Rouhani of Iran to discuss Iran-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Department of the Interior on November 13. The President declared a major disaster in Santa Clara Pueblo and ordered Federal aid to supplement tribal recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storms and flooding from July 19 through 21. September 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss raising the public debt limit and avoiding a Federal Government shutdown. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan L. Cohen and Lanhee J. Chen to be members of the Social Security Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas R. Nides to be Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura Paulson to be a member of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House. The President announced his intention to nominate Quyen D. Chu and Anhlan P. Nguyen to be members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from July 23 through 28.  October 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he was briefed by Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew, Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the Federal Government shutdown and the public debt limit. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius met with citizens who will benefit from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines to discuss the cancelation of his visit to the Philippines due to the Federal Government shutdown. He also informed President Aquino that Secretary of State John F. Kerry would travel to the Philippines in his place. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mohamed Najib bin Abdul Razak of Malaysia to discuss the cancelation of his visit to Malaysia to attend the Global Entrepreneurship Summit. He also informed Prime Minister Najib that Secretary of State Kerry would lead a U.S. delegation to the summit including Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker and U.S. Trade Representative Michael B. Froman. The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding from June 26 through July 11. October 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he was briefed by Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew, Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the Federal Government shutdown and the public debt limit. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with members of the Financial Services Forum to discuss the need to raise the public debt limit. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch.  Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Secretary of the Treasury Lew to discuss the Federal Government shutdown and the public debt limit. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with the President's senior advisers. October 3 In the morning, the President was briefed on preparations for Tropical Storm Karen. Then, he traveled to Rockville, MD. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the afternoon, the President was briefed on the shooting outside the U.S. Capitol. In the evening, the President was briefed on preparations for Tropical Storm Karen. Also in the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia to discuss the cancelation of his visit to Indonesia to attend the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit due to the Federal Government shutdown. He also informed President Yudhoyono that Secretary of State John F. Kerry would attend the summit in his place. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah of Brunei to discuss the cancelation of his visit to Brunei to attend the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Summit and the East Asia Summit. He also informed Sultan Hassanal that Secretary of State Kerry would attend the summits in his place. October 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he was briefed on preparations for Tropical Storm Karen. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Biden visited Taylor Gourmet restaurant, where they purchased lunch, greeted patrons, and thanked restaurant staff for offering a discount to furloughed Federal employees. Later, he was briefed by Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, and other senior advisers on the impacts of the Federal Government shutdown. The President announced his intention to nominate Arnold A. Chacon to be Director General of the Foreign Service at the Department of State.  The President announced his intention to nominate Arun M. Kumar to be Assistant Secretary for International Trade Administration and Director General of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Smith to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Research at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Helen Tierney to be Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Kelly R. Welsh to be General Counsel at the Department of Commerce. October 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President was briefed by White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II, and Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell on the impact of theFederal Government shutdown. October 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss raising the public debt limit and ending the Federal Government shutdown. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. During the day, the President was briefed by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II, Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, and other senior advisers on the impact of the Federal Government shutdown. October 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Library, he participated in separate interviews with Doreen Gentzler of WRC in Washington, DC; Rick Williams of WPVI in Philadelphia, PA; Keith Cate of WFLA in Tampa, FL; and Tracy Sears of WTVR in Richmond, VA. Then, in the East Room, he and Vice President Biden met with members of the House Democratic Caucus. October 10 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister John P. Key of New Zealand to thank him for chairing the meeting of Trans-Pacific Partnership leaders in Bali, Indonesia, on October 8 and discuss outcomes from the meeting. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II, and Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell and other senior advisers on the impact of theFederal Government shutdown.   In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later, in the State Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with members of the Senate Democratic Caucus. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with the leadership of the House Republican Conference. October 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, they were briefed by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell, and other senior advisers, on the impact of theFederal Government shutdown. Then, in the State Dining Room, he and the Vice President met with members of the Senate Republican Conference. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a conference call with a bipartisan group of 25 Governors to discuss raising the public debt limit and the impact of the Federal Government shutdown on State budgets and the economy. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with small-business owners to discuss the public debt limit and the impact of the Federal Government shutdown on their businesses and thank them for their work to create jobs and invest in their communities.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a conference call with 150 business leaders to discuss the public debt limit and the ongoing Federal Government shutdown. Later, also in the Oval Office, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Malia met with Malala Yousafzai, a 16-year-old Pakistani student and education activist who was shot in the head and neck by Taliban gunmen on October 9, 2012. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor to Capt. William D. Swenson, USA, on October 15. October 12 In the afternoon, the President met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid and Sens. Charles E. Schumer, Richard J. Durbin, and Patricia L. Murray. During the day, the President was briefed by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough on the impact of the Federal Government shutdown. October 13 In the afternoon, the President was briefed by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Robert L. Nabors II, and other senior advisers on the impact of the Federal Government shutdown. Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the ongoing Federal Government shutdown and the public debt limit. October 14 In the morning, at Martha's Table, Inc., the President met with furloughed Federal employees who spent their time volunteering for charities during the Federal Government shutdown. He also helped prepare food to be distributed to the needy. In the afternoon, the President was briefed by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough and other senior advisers on the impact of the Federal Government shutdown. October 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he taped separate interviews with Diana Williams of WABC in New York City; Kevin Cooney of KCCI in Des Moines, IA; and Claudia Botero of KMEX in Los Angeles, CA. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the leadership of the House Democratic Caucus. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. October 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to the White House on November 1. October 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with Prime Minister Enrico Letta of Italy. October 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Erna Solberg of Norway to congratulate her on taking office and discuss the situation in Syria and Norway-U.S. relations. October 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss France-U.S. relations, alleged surveillance of French citizens by the National Security Agency, and the situation in Syria. The President announced that he has designated Patricia E. Campbell-Smith as Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. October 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on October 25. October 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss Germany-U.S. relations and allegations that her telephone communications had been monitored by the National Security Agency. The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom at the White House on November 20. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding from July 22 through August 16. October 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Jefferson hotel, the President participated in an event hosted by the Democratic National Committee's Women's Leadership Forum. The President announced his intention to appoint Luke J. McCormack as Chief Information Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Edmund J. Malesky as a member of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Elisa Spungen Bildner, John Farahi, and Dana M. Perlman as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. October 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, where, at the Pathways in Technology Early College High School, he toured a classroom and met with teachers and students.  In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster for the Santa Clara Pueblo and ordered Federal aid to supplement tribal recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from September 13 through 16. October 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss diplomatic efforts withIran, Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, and other regional issues. In the afternoon, on the South Lawn, the President participated in an interview with ABC News's Jim Avila for the Fusion network's "AMERICA with Jorge Ramos" program. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, on October 30. October 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with chief executive officers from the financial, energy, defense, and information technology sectors on strengthening cybersecurity and critical infrastructure. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2013 Stanley Cup Champion Chicago Blackhawks to the White House on November 4. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert C. Barber to be U.S. Ambassador to Iceland. The President announced his intention to nominate Nani A. Coloretti to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Bathsheba N. Crocker to be Assistant Secretary for International Organization Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Elkind to be Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark D. Gilbert to be U.S. Ambassador to New Zealand. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Hezir to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Tina S. Kaidanow to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank of Ambassador at Large, at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate William A. LaPlante, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Acquisition at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Ted Mitchell to be Under Secretary of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Massie Ritsch to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Outreach at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles H. Rivkin to be Assistant Secretary for Economic and Business Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Rhea Suh to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife at the Department of the Interior. The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides on July 27. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, and mudslides from September 9 through 22. October 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. En route to Faneuil Hall, he stopped at City Hall Plaza, where he was joined by William F. Russell, former center, National Basketball Association's Boston Celtics, to preview a new statue of Mr. Russell in honor of his lifetime achievements. Later, he traveled to Weston, MA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senator-elect Cory A. Booker of New Jersey. Later, on the South Portico, he, Mrs. Obama, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson greeted trick-or-treaters. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia at the White House on December 3. The President declared a major disaster in North Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm on October 4 and 5. November 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President was briefed by Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. November 3 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. November 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with John E. Farrell, manager of the Major League Baseball's Boston Red Sox, to congratulate him on their eighth World Series Championship. Later, the President met with Special Envoys for Guantanamo Closure Clifford Sloan, for the Department of State, and Paul M. Lewis, for the Department of Defense, to discuss the closing of the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Dallas, TX, on November 6. November 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Blue Room, he and Mrs. Obama made a surprise drop-by visit on White House tour guests. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he and Vice President Biden met with business leaders to discuss immigration reform and the economy. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he visited with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families. Then, at a residence for families of wounded U.S. military personnel maintained by the Fisher House Foundation, he also visited with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families. Later in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with Governor-elect Terence R. McAuliffe of Virginia and Mayors-elect Warren "Bill" de Blasio of New York City and Martin J. Walsh of Boston, MA, to congratulate them on their election victories. The White House announced that the President will travel to New Orleans, LA, and Miami, FL, on November 8. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Department of the Interior on November 13. November 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Democratic Senators to discuss  the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey to congratulate him on his reelection. Later, he traveled to Dallas, TX. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The President announced his intention to nominate Colleen Bradley Bell to be Ambassador to Hungary. The President announced his intention to nominate Madelyn Creedon to be Principal Deputy Administrator for Nuclear Security at the National Nuclear Security Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Janice Schneider to be Assistant Secretary for Land and Mineral Management at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph W. Westphal to be Ambassador to Saudi Arabia. The President announced his intention to nominate Ellen D. Williams to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency—Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph P. Mohorovic to be Commissioner of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. November 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Sen. John S. McCain III to discuss immigration reform legislation. Then, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he participated in an interview with Chuck Todd of NBC News. In the evening, in the Family Theater, the President hosted a screening of the film "Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom." The White House announced that the President will welcome King Mohammed VI of Morocco to the White House on November 22. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas Beaudreau to be Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management, and Budget at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas A. Burke to be Assistant Administrator for the Office of Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Neil Kornze to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Caroline D. Krass to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Ericka M. Miller to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Stefan M. Selig to be Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce. The President has announced his intention to appoint Cheryl D. Alston and Dallas L. Salisbury as members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced that he has nominated James D. Peterson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. The President announced that he has nominated Nancy J. Rosenstengel to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has nominated Ronnie L. White to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Kevin W. Techau to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Iowa. The President announced that he has nominated Robin S. Rosenbaum to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. November 8 In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, where he toured the Napoleon Container Terminal with Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx, Rep. Cedric L. Richmond, Gov. Piyush "Bobby" Jindal, Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu, Port of New Orleans president and chief executive officer Gary P. LaGrange, Ports America Louisiana general manager Keith Palmisano, and International Longshoremen's Association stevedore Chris Hammond. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL. Upon arrival, he traveled to Coral Gables, FL, where he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent continued nuclear weapons development in Iran. In the evening, the President traveled to the Hilton Miami Downtown hotel, where he remained overnight. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, and flooding from October 3 through 16. November 9 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. November 11 In the morning, in the East Room, the President hosted a Veterans Day breakfast for veterans and their families. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. Later, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. Mrs. Obama and Jill T. Biden, wife of Vice President Biden, also attended. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. November 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines to express his condolences for the damage and loss of life caused by Super Typhoon Haiyan, which struck the Philippines on November 8. They also discussed U.S. assistance in the recovery effort. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situations in Iran, Afghanistan, and Syria.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with tribal leaders attending the White House Tribal Nations Conference on November 13. In the afternoon, at Molly Malone's restaurant, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with PO Katie Cole, USCG; LTJG Courtney Williams, USN; Cpl. Jason Davis, USMC; Senior M. Sgt. Cynthia Gamez, USAF; and SFC Angel Febus Munoz, USA. Later, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with military leadership and combatant commanders. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President hosted a dinner for military leadership, combatant commanders, and their spouses. Mrs. Obama, Vice President Biden, and his wife Jill T. Biden also attended. Also in the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid to discuss implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and other issues. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cleveland, OH, on November 14. The White House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, on November 14. November 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President  François Hollande of France to discuss the situation in Iran. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with religious leaders to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent continued nuclear weapons development in Iran. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medals of Freedom on November 20. November 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH, where he toured the ArcelorMittal Cleveland steelmaking facility and met with employees. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Harry J.F. Korrell and Victor Maddox to be members of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Debo P. Adegbile to be Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Marc Kastner to be Director of the Office of Science at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark E. Lopes to be member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Vivek Hallegere Murthy to be Surgeon General at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Franklin Orr to be Under Secretary for Science at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan L. Graham and J. Michael McQuade to be members of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. November 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Giorgi Margvelashvili as President of the Republic of Georgia on November 17: Rajiv J. Shah (head of delegation); Richard B. Norland; Paige E. Alexander; and Thomas O. Melia. November 16 During the day, in the State Dining Room, the President met with participants in a leadership program for young professionals in Government. November 17 In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to College Park, MD, where, at the Comcast Center, they attended a men's basketball game between the University of Maryland and Oregon State University, where Mrs. Obama's brother Craig M. Robinson serves as head coach. November 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Thomas-Greenfield to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Edith Ramirez and Geovette E. Washington as members of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities: Janet Keller; Kerry J. Marshall; Kalpen S. Modi; Andrew J. Weinstein; and John L. Young. November 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with Sens. Richard J. Durbin, Charles E. Schumer, Saxby Chambliss, Robert P. Corker, Jr., Michael D. Crapo, Dianne Feinstein, Timothy P. Johnson, Carl Levin, Robert Menendez, and John S. McCain III to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent continued nuclear weapons development in Iran. Secretary of State John F. Kerry and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice also participated in the meeting.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with 2013 U.S. Nobel Laureates and their spouses to congratulate them on their contributions to physics, medicine, and economics and show them White House memorabilia of interest. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The President announced his intention to appoint Stephanie Cutter and Caroline "Kim" Taylor as members of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities The President announced his intention to appoint Margaret Russell as a general trustee of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Menell Zients as Chair of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. November 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Arlington, VA, where at Arlington National Cemetery, they and former President William J. Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton participated in a wreath-laying ceremony to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the assassination of former President John F. Kennedy. Then, he and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC.  Later in the afternoon, the President met with representatives from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to discuss the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related issues. November 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he signed S. 330, the HIV Organ Policy Equity Act. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting between Vice President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Robert Fico of Slovakia.  Later in the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President met with the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. Then, in the East Room, he participated in a photo opportunity with the fall class of White House interns. The President announced his intention to nominate Brad R. Carson to be Under Secretary of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Maureen E. Cormack to be Ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The President announced his intention to nominate Leslie Berger Kiernan to be Representative of the United States to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate David Radzanowski to be Chief Financial Officer of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate John Roth to be Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard A. Kennedy to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Heather L. MacDougall to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Anita K. Blanchard as a member of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House. The President announced his intention to appoint Gargee Ghosh and John D. Podesta as members of the President's Global Development Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Ira F. Jaffe as Chair of Presidential Emergency Board No. 244. The President announced his intention to appoint Roberta Golick and Arnold M. Zack as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 244. The President announced that he has nominated Andrew M. Luger to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota. The President announced that he has nominated Damon P. Martinez to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico. The President announced that he has nominated Sherry Moore Trafford and Steven M. Wellner to be judges on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has appointed Alan J. Patricof as a member of the President's Global Development Council. November 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Blue Room, he and Mrs. Obama taped an interview with Barbara Walters of ABC's "20/20" program for later broadcast. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with student representatives from the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship business innovation program. Later, in the Situation Room, he participated in a video conference with U.S. Peace Corps volunteers stationed in Tanzania. He was also joined by Peace Corps Acting Director Carolyn Hessler-Radelet, Special Olympics chief executive officer Timothy P. Shriver, former Sen. Harris L. Wofford, Returned Peace Corps Volunteers of Washington board chair Laura Mariko Schmitz, and National Peace Corps Association president Glenn Blumhorst. During the meeting, he observed a moment of silence to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the assassination of former President John F. Kennedy.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he met with King Mohammed VI of Morocco to discuss Morocco-U.S. relations and U.S. support for Morocco's democratic and economic reforms. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, and White House Coordinator for the Middle East Philip H. Gordon. The White House announced that the President will hold the Thanksgiving turkey pardoning ceremony at the White House on November 27. The White House announced that the President will travel to Seattle, WA, on November 24. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco and Los Angeles, CA, on November 25. November 24 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent continued nuclear weapons development in Iran and Israel-U.S. security cooperation.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Seattle, WA. Later, he participated in a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence. In the evening, the President traveled to Medina, WA. Later, he traveled to the Westin Seattle Hotel in Seattle, where he remained overnight.  November 25 In the morning, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA, where at the San Francisco International Airport, he was greeted by Sen. Dianne Feinstein. In the afternoon, the President participated in a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to Beverly Hills, CA. Later, he traveled to the Beverly Hilton hotel, where he remained overnight.  November 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, where he participated in a Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private residence. Then, he traveled to Glendale, CA, where at DreamWorks Animation, he toured studio facilities and visited with employees. Later, also at DreamWorks, he met with film industry representatives. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, winter storms, tornadoes, and flooding from October 2 through 6.  The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes on November 17. November 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent continued nuclear weapons development in Iran and Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President signed H.R. 1848, H.R. 3204, and S. 252. Later, at the Capital Area Food Bank, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia participated in a service event. November 28 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with 10 members of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service.  November 29 In the morning, at the North Portico, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia, received the White House Christmas tree. Then, on the National Mall, he and Mrs. Obama attended the Fast for Families event for immigration reform. November 30 In the afternoon, at Politics and Prose Bookstore and Modern Times Coffeehouse, the President and his daughters, Sasha and Malia visited with patrons, purchased books, and promoted Small Business Saturday. December 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. December 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury, Jacob J. Lew. December 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Greenberg Theatre at American University, the President taped an interview with Chris Matthews of MSNBC's "Hardball With Chris Matthews" program for later broadcast. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jacob Zuma of South Africa to express his condolences for the death of former President Nelson R. Mandela and discuss South Africa-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to appoint Kevin T. Hanretta as Assistant Secretary for Operations, Security, and Preparedness at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to appoint Paula E. Boggs as a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. The President announced his intention to appoint Robin L. Diamonte as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint John Donahoe as a member of the President's Export Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Eugenio Piñeiro-Soler as a U.S. Commissioner to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas. The President announced his intention to appoint Laura M. Ricketts and Reginald Van Lee as general trustees on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. December 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Graça Machel, wife of former President Nelson R. Mandela of South Africa, to express his condolences on the death of her husband. December 8 In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the 2013 Kennedy Center Honors Gala. December 9 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Dakar, Senegal, arriving in the evening. Former President George W. Bush, former First Lady Laura Bush, and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton accompanied them aboard Air Force One. Then, they traveled to Centurion, South Africa, arriving the following morning.. December 10 In the morning, upon arrival at Waterkloof Air Force Base in Centurion, South Africa, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, Johannesburg in Sandton. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to First National Bank Stadium in Johannesburg. Later, they returned to the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, Johannesburg in Sandton. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Dakar, Senegal, arriving the following morning. Former President George W. Bush and former First Lady Laura Bush accompanied them aboard Air Force One. The President announced the designation the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Kenya to attend a ceremony commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Republic of Kenya on December 12: Robert F. Godec (head of delegation); and Linda Thomas-Greenfield. December 11 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. Former First Lady Laura Bush accompanied them aboard Air Force One. December 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy Brey to the White House on January 13. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas E. Rothman to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter A. Selfridge to be Chief of Protocol at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas A. Silliman to be Ambassador to Kuwait. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert A. Wood to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations Conference on Disarmament. The President announced his intention to nominate Portia Y. Wu to be Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training Administration at the Department of Labor. December 13 The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the Rim Fire from August 17 through October 24. December 14 In the morning, in the Map Room, the President and Mrs. Obama lit 26 candles and observed a moment of silence to commemorate the first anniversary of the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. December 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with U.S. Trade Representative Michael B. Froman, Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker, Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew, and other senior advisers to discuss U.S. trade expansion efforts. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. December 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with chief executive officers from the information technology sector to discuss the online health exchange marketplace, Federal Government technology procurement policies, and information security concerns. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia, on February 7: Janet A. Napolitano (head of delegation); Michael A. McFaul; Robert L. Nabors II; Billie Jean King; and Brian A. Boitano. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the closing ceremony of the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia, on February 23: William J. Burns (head of delegation); Michael A. McFaul; Bonnie K. Blair; Caitlin Cahow; and Eric A. Heiden. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric B. Rosenbach to be Assistant Secretary for Homeland Defense at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Darci L. Vetter to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The President announced his intention to nominate Elisebeth Collins Cook to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to nominate J. Mark McWatters to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board. December 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President-elect Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile to congratulate her on her victory in the December 15 second-round election and discuss Chile-U.S. relations. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with his Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies to discuss the report it submitted to the Congress on December 13. December 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia will travel to Honolulu, HI, on December 20. The President announced his intention to nominate Paige E. Alexander to be Assistant Administrator for the Middle East at the U.S. Agency for International Development The President announced his intention to nominate Sharon Y. Bowen to be a Commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate John C. Cruden to be Assistant Attorney General for Environment and Natural Resources at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Janet McCabe to be Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Leon Rodriguez to be Director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to nominate David B. Shear to be Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to appoint Jane Watson Stetson as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Mary Jacksteit as Chairman of the Federal Service Impasses Panel at the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to appoint Martin H. Malin and Don Wasserman as members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel at the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to appoint Eric Dannenmaier and Robert Varney as members of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation. The President announced his intention to appoint James J. Murren as a member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Hill Harper as a member of the President's Cancer Panel. The President announced that he has nominated the following individuals to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia: Michael P. Boggs; Mark H. Cohen; and Leigh Martin May; and Eleanor L. Ross. The President announced that he has nominated Tanya S. Chutkan to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated M. Hannah Lauck to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The President announced that he has nominated Leo T. Sorokin to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated James A. Soto to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has nominated Julie E. Carnes to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Gregg J. Costa to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. December 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson traveled to Honolulu, HI. Upon arrival at Joint Base Pearl Harbor–Hickam, HI, while still aboard Air Force One, he received an update on the status of four U.S. servicemembers who were wounded while evacuating U.S. citizens in Bor, South Sudan. The President announced his intention to nominate Max S. Baucus to be Ambassador to China. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding on October 30 and 31. December 21 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson traveled to their vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he had a teleconference call with National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser Antony J. Blinken, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and Senior Director for African Affairs Grant T. Harris to discuss the situation in South Sudan. December 22 In the morning, the President received an update on the situation in South Sudan. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the University of Hawaii at Manoa in Honolulu, HI, where, at the Stan Sheriff Center, they attended a men's basketball game between the University of Akron and Oregon State University, where Mrs. Obama's brother Craig M. Robinson serves as head coach. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. During the day, the President enrolled in a health care plan on the DC Health Link web site. He also received an update via teleconference on the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. December 24 In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with 10 members of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service. He also had separate telephone conversations with four U.S. servicemembers who were recently wounded while evacuating U.S. citizens in Bor, South Sudan. December 25 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, where, at Anderson Hall, they met with servicemembers and their families. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Kailua, HI. December 27 During the day, the President received an update via teleconference on the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. December 31 In the afternoon, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Kailua Beach Center, where, at Island Snow Hawaii, he purchased shave ice and posed for a photograph with employees. He also walked to an outside seating area at Bob's Pizzeria and greeted a small crowd of people. Then, he and his daughters returned to their vacation residence. Names: Abbas, Mahmoud; Abbott, Tony; Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, King; Abdullah II, King; Abe, Shinzo; Adams, Yolanda; Adegbile, Debo P.; Akuetteh, Cynthia H.; Al Farajat, Suleiman A.D.; Alameda, Kenny; Alexander, Lamar; Alexander, Paige E.; Allen, Catherine A.; Alonzo, Joe; Alston, Cheryl D.; Althen, William I.; André, Larry E., Jr.; Anthony, Steven; Aquino, Benigno S., III; Archuleta, Katherine; Armstrong, Matthew C.; Arroyo, David J.; Ashe, John W.; Ashford, Tamara W.; Atkinson, Caroline M.; Attwood, Cynthia L.; Auriemma, Geno; Avila, Jim; Ayalde, Liliana; Bacharach, Robert E.; Bachelet Jeria, Michelle; Baer, Daniel B.; Baer, Joshua; Bagley, Elizabeth F.; Bains, Leslie E.; Baker, James A., III; Balsiger, Jim W.; Ban Ki-moon; Banda, Joyce; Barber, Robert C.; Barkow, Rachel E.; Barnes, Martin E., Jr.; Barnett, Mark A.; Barron, David J.; Barzun, Matthew W.; Bashant, Cynthia A.; Bass, Hyman; Bastian, Stanley A.; Baucus, Max S.; Bauer, Denise; Bauer, Robert F.; Beaudreau, Thomas; Bell, Colleen Bradley; Bennet, Michael F.; Bennett, D. Michael; Bennett, Steve; Bernanke, Ben S.; Berry, John; Berzins, Andris; Biden, Jill T.; Biden, Joseph R. "Beau", III; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Bildner, Elisa Spungen; Binz, Ronald J.; Biswal, Nisha Desai; Bjorklund, Jan; Blair, Bonnie K.; Blake, Robert O., Jr.; Blanchard, Anita K.; Blankinship, Gary L.; Blinken, Antony J.; Blitzer, Wolf; Blum, David; Blumhorst, Glenn; Boehner, John A.; Boggs, Michael P.; Boggs, Paula, E.; Boitano, Brian A.; Bonnie, Robert; Booker, Cory A.; Booth, Donald E.; Botero, Claudia; Bowe, Peter A.; Bowen, Sharon Y.; Bowman, Leslie G.; Brennan, John O.; Brewer, Janice K.; Brewster, James "Wally," Jr.; Breyer, Charles R.; Brigety, Reuben E., III; Britton, Brian; Broas, Tim; Broderick, Vernon S.; Brooks, Timothy L.; Brown, Debra M.; Brown, Edmund G. "Jerry," Jr.; Bruce, Colin S.; Brzezinski, Mark; Brzezinski, Natalia; Buerkle, Ann Marie; Bulgaa, Altangerel; Bunnell, Stevan E.; Burcham, Margaret W.; Burke, Thomas A.; Burns, William J.; Burr, Richard M.; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Burwell, Sylvia Matthews; Bush, Barbara; Bush, Dwight L., Sr.; Bush, George H.W.; Bush, George W.; Bush, Laura; Cadish, Elissa F.; Cahow, Caitlin; Caldwell, Leslie R.; Cameron, David; Campbell, Piper A.W.; Campbell-Smith, Patricia E.; Cantor, Eric; Caproni, Valerie E.; Carl XVI Gustaf, King; Carlin, John P.; Carnes, Julie E.; Carper, Thomas C.; Carroll, Michael G.; Carson, Brad R.; Carson, Johnnie; Carter, Ty M.; Cartes Jara, Horacio Manuel; Casey, Robert P., Jr.; Castillo-Chavez, Carlos; Cate, Keith; Cecilia Nahon, Maria; Chacon, Arnold A.; Chambliss, Saxby; Chaouachi, Mohktar; Chappell, Sheri Polster; Chen, Lanhee J.; Chen, Pamela Ki Mai; Chen, Raymond T.; Chhabria, Vince C.; Childress, Mark B.; Chinchilla Miranda, Laura; Christie, Christopher J.; Chu, Quyen D.; Chuang, Theodore D.; Chutkan, Tanya S.; Clapper, James R., Jr.; Clark, Diana Shaw; Claypool, Henry; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, William J.; Clune, Daniel A.; Cobert, Beth F.; Coburn, Thomas A.; Cohen, Alan L.; Cohen, Mark H.; Cole, Bruce; Cole, James, Jr.; Cole, Katie; Cole, Thomas J.; Collier, Sean A.; Collins, Susan M.; Coloretti, Nani A.; Comey, James B., Jr.; Connor, Michael L.; Cook, Elisabeth Collins; Cooney, Kevin; Cooper, Christopher R.; Cooper, Wendy A.; Cordova, France A.; Cordray, Richard A.; Corker, Robert P.; Corker, Robert P., Jr.; Cormack, Maureen E.; Costa, Gregg J.; Costos, James; Covington, Theresa M.; Crabtree, Daniel D.; Crapo, Michael D.; Creedon, Madelyn; Cretz, Gene A.; Crocker, Bathsheba N.; Crocker, Ryan C.; Croley, Steven; Croom, Robert E.; Crowell, Bradley; Cruden, John C.; Crumbly, Angelique M.; Cui Tiankai; Cummisky, Margaret L.; Cuomo, Andrew M.; Cuomo, Chris; Curry, Thomas J.; Cutter, Stephanie; Dahl, Scott S.; Dannenmaier, Eric; Dates, Jannette L.; Daughton, Thomas F.; Davidson, Douglas A.; Davidson, Janine; Davis, Brian J.; Davis, Edward F.; Davis, Jason; de Blasio, Warren "Bill"; Deese, Brian C.; DeGioia, John J.; Delery, Stuart F.; Delgado Hernández, Pedro A.; DeMarco, Edward J.; Dempsey, Martin E.; DesLauriers, Richard; Diamonte, Robin L.; Diaz-Balart, Jose; Dick, Shelly Deckert; Dingell, John D., Jr.; Dlamini-Zuma, Nkosazana; Donahoe, John; Donaldson, Milford W.; Donato, James; Donilon, Thomas E.; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; Dorsey, Jennifer A.; Duncan, Arne; Durbin, Richard J.; Dynan, Karen; Early, Gerald L.; Echevarria, Joe; Elbegdorj, Tsakhia; Elkind, Jonathan; Ellis, Sara Lee; Ellis-Kirk, Patrice; Emerson, John B.; Entwistle, James F.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Erekat, Saeb; Estrada, John L.; Failla, Katherine Polk; Fallin, Mary; Farahi, John; Fardon, Zachary T.; Farrell, John E.; Farrisee, Gina S.; Favreau, Jonathan E.; Fayyad, Salam; Feibelman, Camilla C.; Feinstein, Dianne; Feldblum, Chai R.; Felton, Wanda F.; Finn, Chester A.; FitzGibbon, Kathleen; Foer, Jonathan S.; Forsman, Leonard; Foxx, Anthony R.; Francis, Pope; Francisco, Joseph S.; Frank, Richard G.; Frantz, Douglas; Frazer, Gary; Frazier, Kenneth C.; Freeman, Beth L.; Friedland, Michelle T.; Frifield, Julia; Froman, Michael B.; Frost, Joye; Fugate, W. Craig; Funkhouser, Anthony C.; Gamez, Cynthia; Garbow, Avi; Garcia, Sylvia I.; Gardner, Anthony L.; Gaspard, Patrick H.; Gauck, Joachim; Gegeshidze, Archil; Geithner, Timothy F.; Gensler, Gary S.; Gentzler, Doreen; Germond, Alice T.; Gesing, Rick; Ghosh, Gargee; Giancarlo, J. Christopher; Gibson, Sloan D.; Gifford, Rufus; Giffords, Gabrielle D.; Gilbert, Lori; Gilbert, Mark D.; Gillard, Julia E.; Ginsberg, Benjamin L.; Glang, Gerd F.; Gluski, Andrés R.; Godec, Robert F.; Goldberg, Phillip S.; Golick, Roberta; Gonzales, Kenneth J.; Goodman, Lee E.; Gordon, Andrew P.; Gordon, Samuel N.; Gowadia, Huban A.; Graham, Lindsey O.; Graham, Susan L.; Gray, Danielle C.; Grayson, Charles M. "Trey," III; Grein, Thomas; Griffin Richard F.; Griffin, Chad; Gruenberg, Martin J.; Grybauskaite, Dalia; Gutherie, Savannah; Guthrie, Savannah; Gutman, Joseph D.; Hackett, Ken; Hadley, Stephen J.; Hagel, Charles T.; Haikala, Madeline Hughes; Haines, Avril D.; Hale, David; Halligan, Caitlin J.; Hallock, Harry P.; Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani; Hamamoto, Pamela K.; Hammer, Michael A.; Hammond, Chris; Hammond, Tony; Handelsman, Jo E.; Haney, S. Fitzgerald; Hannigan, Theresa; Hanretta, Kevin T.; Harbaugh, John; Harden, Krysta L.; Harkin, Thomas R.; Harper, Hill; Harper, Keith M.; Harper, Stephen; Harper, Stephen J.; Harpool, M. Douglas; Harrell, Margaret C.; Harrington, Matthew T.; Harris, Carla A.; Harris, Grant T.; Harris, Julian; Harris, Marcelite; Hart, Christopher A.; Hartog-Levin, Fay; Haskett, Geoffrey L.; Haslach, Patricia M.; Hassan Sheikh Mahamud; Hassanal Bolkiah; Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan; Hazel, George J.; Heiden, Eric A.; Heifetz, Beth; Helvey, David F.; Hendricks, Bruce Howe; Herbst, Ellen C.; Herencia, Roberto R.; Hersman, Deborah A.P.; Hertling, Mark; Hessler Radelet, Carolyn; Hessler-Radelet, Carolyn; Hessler-Radelet, Carrie; Heumann, Judith E.; Hewson, Marillyn A.; Heyman, Bruce A.; Hezir, Joseph; Hickenlooper, John W.; Higginbottom, Heather A.; Hirozawa, Kent; Hobbs, Robert L.; Hochberg, Fred P.; Hoffman, Jack; Holder, Eric H., Jr.; Holladay, Jon M.; Hollande, Francois; Hollande, François; Holmes, Calvin L.; Hoover, John; Hoza, Michael S.; Hughes, Todd M.; Humala Tasso, Ollanta Moises; Humetawa, Diane J.; Humiston, Mary; Husock, Howard A.; Hyatt, Amy J.; Hyde, Dana J.; Ifill, Gwen; Ilves, Toomas Hendrik; Indyk, Martin S.; Inhofe, James M.; Islam, Frank F.; Jackson, Ketanji Brown; Jacksteit, Mary; Jaenichen, Paul N., Sr.; Jaffe, Ira F.; James, Deborah Lee; James, Renée J.; Jameson, Arlen D.; Jaranowski, Todd; Jarrett, Ed; Jasien, William S.; Jiechi, Yang; Jindal, Piyush "Bobby"; Johnson, Earvin "Magic", Jr.; Johnson, Harry I., III; Johnson, Timothy P.; Jones, Deborah K.; Joyce, Rosemary A.; Joyner, Tom; Kadzik, Peter J.; Kahn, Tammie; Kaidanow, Tina S.; Kale, Katy A.; Kamoie, Brian; Kapaun, Emil J.; Kaplan, Elaine D.; Karzai, Hamid; Kastner, Marc; Katami, Paul; Kayatta, William J., Jr.; Keckler, Charles; Keenan, Cody S.; Keita, Ibrahim Boubacar; Keitges, Vanessa; Keller, Janet; Kelley, Cliff; Kelly, Claire R.; Kelly, Dennis F.; Kelly, Jane; Kennedy, Caroline B.; Kennedy, Richard A.; Kenny, Enda; Kenyatta, Uhuru; Kenyatta, Uhuru ; Kerlikowske, R. Gil; Kerry, John F.; Kerscher, George; Keselowski, Brad; Key, John P.; Kia'aina, Esther; Kiernan, Leslie Berger; Kikwete, Jakaya Mrisho; Kikwete, Salma; Kim, Sung; Kim, Sung Y.; King, Angus S., Jr.; King, Billie Jean; Kirk, Ronald; Klotz, Frank G.; Knight, James; Kornze, Neil; Koroma, Ernest Bai; Korrell, Harry J.F.; Koskinen, John A.; Koutz, James E.; Krass, Caroline D.; Kumar, Arun M.; Kuniholm, Jonathan F.; La Lime, Helen M.; LaBreck, Janet L.; LaGrange, Gary P.; Landrieu, Mitchell J.; Langley, Nanci E.; LaPlante, William A., Jr.; Lauck, M. Hannah; Laughlin, Esetelle W.; Lawson, Michael A.; Leahy, Patrick J.; Lee Hsien Loong; Lee Myung-bak; Lee, Alison R.; Lee, Barbara; Leger, Teresa Isabel; Leitman, Matthew F.; Leonard, Mary Beth; Leslie, Jack; Letta, Enrico; Lettre, Marcel J., II; Levere, Andrea; Levin, Carl; Levy, Jon D.; Levy, Judith E.; Lew, Jacob J.; Lew, Jacob J. "Jack"; Lewis, Glenn; Lewis, Paul M.; Lhamon, Catherine E.; Limerick, Patricia Nelson; Linick, Steve A.; Lipman, Sheryl H.; Listenbee, Robert, Jr.; Livni, Tzipora "Tzipi"; Logan, Steven P.; Lomax, Harvard "Larry"; Lopes, Mark E.; Lowe, Rick; Lowe, Shelly C.; Lu, Donald; Luger, Andrew M.; Lumpkin, Michael D.; Lute, Douglas E.; Mabus, Raymond E.; MacDougall, Heather L.; Macfarlane, Allison M.; Machel, Graça; Mack, Megan H.; Maddox, Victor; Madiba-Zuma, Thobeka S.; Madison, Joe; Mahama, John Dramani; Mahoney, Amalia Perea; Maldon, Alphonso, Jr.; Malesky, Edmund J.; Maliki, Nuri al-; Malin, Martin H.; Malinowski, Tomasz P.; Mamet, Noah B.; Manchin, Joseph, III; Mandela, Nelson R.; Margvelashvili, Giorgi; Márquez, Rosemary; Marshall, Kerry J.; Martin, Patricia M.; Martinez, Damon P.; Martinez, Susana; Marvel, L. Paige; Mason, Karol V.; Mastroianni, Mark G.; Mastromonaco, Alyssa; Matthews, Chris; Matz, Deborah; Maurer, Peter; May, Leigh Martin; Mayes, Michele Coleman; Mayo, Stephen L.; Mayorkas, Alejandro N.; May-Parker, Jennifer P.; McAuliffe, Terence R.; McCabe, Janet; McCafferty, Landya B.; McCain, John S. III; McCain, John S., III; McCarthy, Dennis M.; McConnell, A. Mitchell; McCormack, Luke J.; McCue, Susan; McCulley, Terence; McCulloch, Phil; McDonough, Denis R.; McFaul, Michael A.; McGeehan, Ann; McGill, Matt; McGinn, Dennis V.; McGuinness, J. Martin P.; McHugh, Carolyn B.; McNally, Elizabeth Young; McQuade, J. Michael; McShane, Michael J.; McSweeny, Terrell; McWatters, J. Mark; Meadows, Mark; Melia, Thomas O.; Menendez, Robert; Menino, Thomas M.; Merkel, Angela; Merten, Kenneth H.; Metsger, Richard T.; Meyer, Jeffrey A.; Michelson, Laurie J.; Miller, Debra L.; Miller, Ericka M.; Miscimarra, Philip A.; Mitchell, Ted; Modi, Kalpen S.; Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince; Mohammed VI, King; Mohorovic, Joseph P.; Molcho, Yitzhak; Monaco, Lisa O.; Moniz, Ernest J.; Montenegro, Lori; Moody, James M., Jr.; Moore, Raymond P.; Mora Icaza, Eduardo Medina; Morell, Michael J.; Moreno, Carlos R.; Moreno, Luis G.; Morin, Jamie; Moritz, Nancy L.; Morris, Brian; Mossman, Kenneth L.; Mueller, Robert S.; Mueller, Robert S., III; Muhammad bin Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; Mulally, Alan; Mull, Stephen D.; Mulonda, Palan; Munoz, Angel Febus; Muñoz, Cecilia; Murphy, Patrick J.; Murray, Patricia L.; Murray, Thomas; Murren, James J.; Mursi, Muhammad; Murthy, Vivek Hallegere; Mushingi, Tulinabo Salama; Nabors, Robert L., II; Najib bin Abdul Razak, Mohamed; Napolitano, Giorgio; Napolitano, Janet A.; Nathman, John B.; NcHugh, Gerald A., Jr.,; Nega, Joseph W.; Nelson, Brent F.; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Nethery, Mark T.; Neves, José Maria Pereira; Newsome, Ozzie, Jr.; Nguyen, Anhlan P.; Nichols, Brian A.; Nides, Thomas R.; Nieto, Enrique Peña; Nix-Hines, Crystal; Nooter, William W.; Norland, Richard B.; Novak, Robby; Novelli, Catherine A.; Nuland, Victoria J.; Nunley, Troy L.; Obama, Malia; Obama, Michelle; Obama, Natasha "Sasha"; O'Connell, Beverly Reid; O'Connell, Libby H.; O'Keefe, Michael K.; Okimoto, Daniel I.; Okun, Robert D.; O'Regan, Katherine M.; O'Rielly, Michael P.; Orr, Franklin; Orrick, William H., III; Owens, John B.; Padalino, John C.; Palmieri, Jennifer M.; Palmisano, Keith; Panetta, Leon E.; Parham, Gregory L.; Park Geun-hye; Parker, Linda V.; Patrick, Deval L.; Patrick, Tammy; Patricof, Alan J.; Patterson, Anne W.; Paulson, Laura; Pearce, David D.; Pearce, Mark G.; Pelley, Scott; Pelosi, Nancy; Peña Nieto, Enrique; Peng Liyuan; Peres, Shimon; Perez, Thomas E.; Perlman, Dana M.; Perry, Kristin; Pete, Mary C.; Peters, F. Whitten; Peterson, James D.; Petit, Michael R.; Petty, Julie; Pfannl Caballero, Fernando Antonio; Pfeiffer, H. Daniel; Phillips, Gregory A.; Phillips, John R.; Pierce, Anthony T.; Pierson, Julia A.; Pietrzyk, Pius; Piñeiro-Soler, Eugenio; Pinera Echenique, Sebastian; Pitino, Rick; Piwowar, Michael; Pizzella, Patrick; Podesta, John D.; Polite, Kenneth A., Jr.; Portman, Robert J.; Powell, Jim; Power, Samantha; Preston, Stephen W.; Price, Clement A.; Pritzker, Penny S.; Pryor, Jill A.; Pryor, William H., Jr.; Putin, Vladimir V.; Pyatt, Geoffrey R.; Quiñones Alejandro, Nitza I.; Rabern, Susan J.; Radzanowski, David; Raji, Azita; Rajoy Brey, Mariano; Ramer, Bruce M.; Ramirez, Edith; Ramirez, Rion J.; Raphael, Carol; Raskin, Sarah Bloom; Rasmussen, Anders Fogh; Ravel, Ann; Rayes, Douglas L.; Read, Ian C.; Reddick, Eunice S.; Reeker, Philip T.; Reeves, Pamela L.; Reid, Harry M.; Reinfeldt, John Fredrik; Restrepo, Luis F.; Rhimes, Shonda L.; Rhodes, Benjamin J.; Rice, Susan E.; Richmond, Cedric L.; Ricketts, Laura M.; Ritsch, Massie; Rivkin, Charles H.; Roberts, John G., Jr.; Robinson, Beth; Robinson, Craig M.; Robinson, Marian; Robinson, Peter; Robinson, Tom; Robles, Anthony M.; Rodriguez, Jennifer; Rodriguez, Leon; Rodriguez, Miguel; Rodriguez, Miguel E.; Rojas, Amos, Jr.; Román, Nelson S.; Romesha, Clinton L.; Rometty, Virginia M.; Rooney, Jo Ann; Rose, Charlie; Rose, Frank A.; Rosen, Jeff; Rosenbach, Eric B.; Rosenbaum, Greg A.; Rosenbaum, Robin S.; Rosenstengel, Nancy J.; Ross, Eleanor L.; Roth, John; Rothman, Thomas E.; Roubideaux, Yvette; Rouhani, Hassan; Rousseff, Dilma; Roussell, Melanie N.; Rubenstein, David M.; Rubin, David; Rubio, Marco A.; Rudd, Kevin M.; Ruemmler, Kathryn H.; Ruiz, Angel; Russel, Daniel R.; Russell, Catherine M.; Russell, Margaret; Russell, William F.; Russia : President; Ruttledge, Lynnae M.; Ryan, Evan; Ryan, Paul D.; Rymer, Jon T.; Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah, Amir; Saban, Nicholas L.; Salazar, Kenneth L.; Salinas, Maria Elena; Salisbury, Dallas L.; Sall, Macky; Sall, Marieme Faye; Sallo, Marlene; Samaras, Antonios; Sánchez, Francisco; Sanders, David; Santos Calderon, Juan Manuel; Sapiro, Miriam; Sareer, Ahmed; Sasae, Kenichiro; Sauer, Joachim; Savage, Melissa; Sawyer, Diane; Schaefer, Mark; Scheinman, Adam M.; Schiffer, Nancy; Schleicher, Roy A.; Schmehl, Jeffrey L.; Schmidtlein, Rhonda S.; Schmitz, Laura Mariko; Schneider, Janice; Schnepf, Ryszard Marian; Schulman, Maureen; Schultz, Eric T.; Schumer, Charles E.; Schumer, Charles E. ; Schwartz, Eric P.; Schwartz, Linda Spoonster; Sears, Tracy; Sebelius, Kathleen; Selfridge, Peter A.; Selig, Stefan M.; Sepulveda, Daniel A.; Serino, Richard A.; Sewell, Sarah; Shah, Manish S.; Shah, Rajiv J.; Sharif, Mohammad gNawaz; Sharif, Mohammad Nawaz; Sharpton, Alfred C., Jr.; Shear, David B.; Shelanski, Howard A.; Shelton, Jim; Sherman, Robert A.; Shriver, Timothy P.; Shtayyeh, Mohammed; Shultz, George; Shwartz, Patty; Silliman, Douglas A.; Silvia, Queen; Simas, David; Simati, Aunese Makoi; Simmons, Tyson; Simon, Robert M.; Skelton, Isaac N."Ike", IV; Sleiman, Michel; Sloan, Clifford; Slovakia, Robert; Smith, C. Kenneth; Smith, Christopher; Smith, Daniel B.; Smith, Edward D.; Smith, Gary T.; Snowden, Edward; Solberg, Erna; Sorenson, Arne M.; Sorokin, Leo T.; Soto, James A.; South Africa : Robben Island, tour; Spaulding, Suzanne E.; Splinter, Mike; Spoelstra, Erik; Srinivasan, Srikanth; Stanton, Alexandra C.; Stanton, Karen C.; Starr, Gregory B.; Starvridis, James G.; Stein, Kara M.; Steinbrueck, Peer; Stengel, Richard; Stephanopoulos, George; Stephenson, Barbara; Stetson, Jane Watson; Stevens, Clark W.; Stevenson, Betsey; Stier, Sandra; Stilwell, David R.; Stock, James; Strickland, Theodore; Suh, Rhea; Sullivan, Jake; Sullivan, Kathryn D.; Sullivan, Stephanie Sanders; Sundstrand, Jacquelyn K.; Susman, Louis; Susman, Sally; Sutton, Betty S.; Swan, James C.; Sweet, Caroline; Swenson, William; Swenson, William D.; Tachau, Katherine H.; Talwani, Indira; Talwar, Puneet; Tangherlini, Daniel M.; Taranto, Richard G.; Tavenner, Marilyn B.; Taylor, Caroline "Kim"; Techau, Kevin W.; Teitelbaum, Donald G.; Thatcher, Margaret H.; Thein Sein; Thessin, James H.; Thomas, Christopher M.; Thomas, William L.; Thomas-Greenfield, Linda; Thompson, John H.; Thomson, Kathryn; Thornton, Michael B.; Thurman, James D.; Tierney, Helen; Tillemann, Tomicah; Tobin, Peter C.; Todd, Chuck; Torres, Analisa; Trafford, Sherry Moore; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary; Treffinger, Mark; Truong Tan Sang ; Tsarnaev, Dzokhar; Tsarnaev, Tamerlan; Tsunis, George J.; Tuchi, John J.; Tutu, Desmond M.; Udall, Mark E.; Ulloa, Walter F.; Umarov, Kairat; Valenzuela, Alfred; Van Hollen, Christopher, Jr.; Van Lee, Reginald; Vance-Cooks, Davita; Varney, Robert; Vetter, Darci L.; Vilsack, Thomas J.; Voluntarism; Wagar, Kirk W.B.; Wakefield, Fred D.; Wald, Patricia M.; Wallace, Chris; Walsh, Martin J.; Walters, Barbara; Washington, Geovette E.; Wasserman, Don; Wassmer, Victoria M. Baecher; Watson, Derrick K.; Watters, Susan P.; Weil, David; Weinstein, Andrew J.; Weinstein, Kenneth R.; Weiss, Lesley; Weiss, Lesley L.; Wellner, Steven M.; Welsh, Kelly R.; Werfel, Daniel I.; Wesner, Alexa Lange; Westphal, Joseph W.; Whitaker, Kevin; Whitaker, Michael G.; White, Mary Jo; White, Ronnie L.; Wicker, Roger; Wilkes, Sybil; Willem-Alexander, King; Williams, Courtney; Williams, Diana; Williams, Ellen D.; Williams, Jay; Williams, Rick; Windsor, Edith; Winfree, Gregory D.; Wofford, Harris L.; Wolf, Robert; Wolford, Elizabeth A.; Wommack, Agnes; Wong, Alice; Wood, Andrea R.; Wood, Robert A.; Woodruff, Judy; Woods, Gregory H.; Wowereit, Klaus; Wright, Jeff; Wright, Jessica Garfola; Wu, Portia Y.; Wyeth Earnest, Natalie; Xi Jinping; Yang, Wang; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Young, John L.; Yousafzai, Malala; Yudhoyono, Susilo Bambang; Yudin, Michael K.; Yun, Joseph Y.; Zack, Arnold M.; Zack, Stephen N.; Zamora Rivas, Ruben Ignacio; Zarillo, Jeffrey; Zaydan, Ali; Zients, Mary Menell; Zogby, James J.; Zuma, Jacob; Zuma, Jacob G.; Zumwalt, James P. Subjects: ; ABC : "20/20" program; ABC : "This Week" program; ABC : "World News" program; ABC : Fusion network joint venture; Administrative Conference of the United States, Council of the; Afghanistan : 2014 elections; Afghanistan : Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : Peace and reconciliation efforts; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : Reconciliation efforts; Afghanistan : Relations with U.S.; Africa : African Union :: African Union Commission; African Development Foundation; African Union : U.S. Representative; Agriculture, Department of : Administration, Assistant Secretary for; Agriculture, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Agriculture, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Agriculture, Department of : Natural Resources and Environment, Under Secretary for; Agriculture, Department of : Rural Utilities Service; Agriculture, Department of : Secretary; Air Force, Department of the : Acquisition, Assistant Secretary for; Air Force, Department of the : Air Force Academy, U.S.; Air Force, National Commission on the Structure of the; Alaska : Disaster assistance; Albania, U.S. Ambassador; Algeria : Terrorist attack on Tigantourine gas facility near In Amenas; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Karuk Tribe, disaster assistance; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Navajo Nation; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; American Indians and Alaska Natives : White House Tribal Nations Conference; American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012; Angola, U.S. Ambassador; Arab-Israeli conflict, peace process; Arctic Research Commission; Argentina : Ambassador to U.S.; Argentina : U.S. Ambassador; Arizona : Erickson Construction in Chandler; Arizona : Governor; Arizona : President’s visit; Arizona : President's visit; Arizona : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Arkansas : Disaster assistance; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Arms and munitions : Chemical and biological weapons; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Nonproliferation efforts; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Army, Department of the : Under Secretary; Arts : "42," White House screening; Arts : "Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom," White House screening; Arts : "The Presidents' Gatekeepers", White House screening; Arts : Film industry representatives, meeting with President in Glendale, CA; Arts : Musica Latina, White House performance; Arts and Humanities, President's Committee on the; Arts, National Council on the; Asia : Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); Asia : East Asia Summit; Asia : Security cooperation with U.S.; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC); Atlantic Tunas, International Commission for the Conservation of; Australia : Prime Minister; Australia : Prime Minister-designate; Australia : Relations with U.S.; Australia : U.S. Ambassador; Austria, U.S. Ambassador; Belgium : U.S. Ambassador; Belize : U.S. Ambassador; Bosnia and Herzegovina, U.S. Ambassador; Brazil : President; Brazil : Relations with U.S.; Brazil : U.S. Ambassador; Broadcasting Board of Governors; Brunei : Association of Southeast Asian Nations Summit in Bandar Seri Begawan; Brunei : East Asia Summit in Bandar Seri Begawan; Brunei : President Obama's visit; Brunei : Sultan; Budget, Federal : Deficit and national debt; Budget, Federal : Fiscal year 2014 budget; Budget, Federal : Government programs, spending reductions; Budget, Federal : Procurement policies, reform; Budget, Federal : Public debt limit; Burkina Faso : U.S. Ambassador; Burma : President; Business and industry : Business leaders, meeting with President; Business and industry : Entrepreneurship :: Promotion efforts; Business and industry : Financial Services Forum, meeting with President; Business and industry : Home loan industry; Business and industry : Small businesses :: Promotion efforts; Cabinet : Members, meeting with President; California : Annenberg Retreat at Sunnylands in Rancho Mirage; California : Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash landing in San Francisco; California : Democratic Party events; California : Disaster assistance; California : DreamWorks Animation in Glendale; California : Governor; California : KMEX in Los Angeles; California : President's visit; California : President's visits; California : Shooting at Los Angeles International Airport in Los Angeles; California : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Camaroon : U.S. Ambassador; Canada : Prime Minister; Canada : U.S. Ambassador; Cancer Panel, President's; Cape Verde, Prime Minister; CBS : "Evening News" program; Central America : Trade with U.S.; Central American Integration System (SICA); Central Intelligence Agency; Chad : President; Chad : U.S. Ambassador; Children and youth : Youth violence, reduction efforts; Chile : Elections; Chile : President; Chile : President-elect; Chile : Relations with U.S.; Chile : U.S. Ambassador; China : Ambassador to U.S.; China : President; China : Relations with U.S.; China : State Councilor; China : Strategic Economic Dialogue, U.S.-China; China : U.S. Ambassador-designate; China : Vice Premier; Civil Aviation Organization, Council of the International; Civil rights : Civil rights movement; Civil rights : Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender persons, equality; Civil rights : Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009; Civil rights : March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, 50th anniversary; Civil rights : Racial equality; Civil Rights, U.S. Commission on; CNN : "New Day" program; CNN : "The Situation Room" program; Colombia : President; Colombia, U.S. Ambassador; Colorado : Denver Police Academy in Denver; Colorado : Disaster assistance; Colorado : Governor; Colorado : Law enforcement officials and community leaders, meeting with President; Colorado : President's visit; Colorado : Severe flooding, damage and recovery efforts; Colorado : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Commerce, Department of; Commerce, Department of : Administration, Assistant Secretary for; Commerce, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs; Commerce, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Commerce, Department of : Economic Development, Assistant Secretary for; Commerce, Department of : General Counsel; Commerce, Department of : International Trade Administration, Assistant Secretary for; Commerce, Department of : International Trade, Under Secretary for; Commerce, Department of : Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National; Commerce, Department of : Oceans and Atmosphere, Assistant Secretary for; Commerce, Department of : Secretary; Commerce, Department of : U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service, Director General of the; Commerce, Department of : U.S. Census Bureau; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere; Commerce, international : Group of 20 (G–20) nations; Commerce, international : Group of Eight (G–8) nations; Commerce, international : Group of Twenty (G–20) nations; Commerce, international : U.S. exports :: Expansion; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Communications : New media :: Presidential interviews; Communications : News media :: Presidential interviews; Communications : News media, Presidential interviews; Communications Commission, Federal; Community Development Advisory Board; Congo, Democratic Republic of the, U.S. Ambassador; Congo, Republic of the : U.S. Ambassador; Congress : Bipartisanship; Congress : Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus; Congress : Congressional Black Caucus; Congress : Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: House Democratic Caucus; Congress : House of Representatives :: House Republic Conference; Congress : House of Representatives :: House Republican Conference; Congress : House of Representatives :: Majority leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Minority leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Congress : Meetings with President; Congress : Members, meetings with President; Congress : Senate :: Majority leader; Congress : Senate :: Minority leader; Congress : Senate :: Senate Democratic Caucus; Congress : Senate :: Senate Republican Conference; Connecticut : Disaster assistance; Connecticut : President's visit; Connecticut : Shootings in Newtown; Connecticut : University of Hartford in West Hartford; Connecticut: Disaster assistance; Connecticut: President's visit; Consumer Cooperative Bank, National; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ; Consumer Product Safety Commission; Costa Rica : President; Costa Rica : President Obama's visit; Costa Rica : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Cote d'Ivoire : U.S. Ambassador; Credit Union Administration Board, National; Croatia : European Union, accession; Cuba : Guantanamo Bay, U.S. Naval Base :: Closure of detention facilities; Cuba : Guantanamo Bay, U.S. Naval Base :: Detention of alleged terrorists; Cultural Property Advisory Committee; Deaths : Mandela, Nelson R., former President of South Africa; Decorations, medals, and awards :  Arts, National Medal of; Decorations, medals, and awards :  Congressional Medal of Honor; Decorations, medals, and awards :  Humanities Medal, National; Decorations, medals, and awards : Congressional Medal of Honor; Decorations, medals, and awards : Daily Point of Light Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : Goldman Environmental Prize; Decorations, medals, and awards : Presidential Citizens Medal, 2012; Decorations, medals, and awards : Presidential Medal of Freedom; Decorations, medals, and awards : Purple Heart; Decorations, medals, and awards : Science, National Medal of; Decorations, medals, and awards : Technology and Innovation, National Medal of; Defense and national security : Classified national security information; Defense and national security : Cybersecurity; Defense and national security : Cybersecurity :: Strengthening efforts; Defense and national security : Electronic surveillance program; Defense and national security : Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act; Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Asian and Pacific Security Affairs; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Homeland Defense; Defense, Department of : Combatant commanders, meeting with President; Defense, Department of : Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Director of; Defense, Department of : Guantanamo Closure, Special Envoy for; Defense, Department of : Inspector General; Defense, Department of : Intelligence, Principal Deputy Under Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense, Department of : Navy, Department of the : Under Secretary; Defense, Department of : Personnel and Readiness, Under Secretary of; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Defense, Department of : Secretary of the Air Force; Defense, Department of : Secretary-designate; Defense, Department of : Sexual assault in the military, efforts to combat; Defense, Department of : Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, Assistant Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, MD; Defense, Department of: General Counsel; Delaware : First State National Monument; Democratic Governors Association; Democratic Party : Democratic National Committee; Democratic Party : Senate Democratic Issues Conference; Denmark, U.S. Ambassador; Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal; Development banks and funds : Inter-American Development Bank; Development, U.S. Agency for International; Disability, National Council on; Disaster assistance : Alaska; Disaster assistance : Arkansas; Disaster assistance : California; Disaster assistance : Colorado; Disaster assistance : Connecticut; Disaster Assistance : Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians ; Disaster assistance : Florida; Disaster assistance : Hurricane Sandy; Disaster assistance : Illinois; Disaster assistance : Iowa; Disaster assistance : Kansas; Disaster assistance : Karuk Tribe; Disaster assistance : Louisiana; Disaster assistance : Maine; Disaster assistance : Marshall Islands; Disaster assistance : Massachusetts; Disaster assistance : Michigan; Disaster assistance : Minnesota; Disaster assistance : Mississippi; Disaster assistance : Missouri; Disaster assistance : Montana; Disaster assistance : Navajo Nation; Disaster assistance : Nebraska; Disaster assistance : New Hampshire; Disaster assistance : New Hampshire ; Disaster assistance : New Jersey; Disaster assistance : New Mexico; Disaster assistance : New York; Disaster assistance : North Carolina; Disaster assistance : North Dakota; Disaster assistance : Ohio; Disaster assistance : Oklahoma; Disaster assistance : Pennsylvania; Disaster assistance : Rhode Island; Disaster assistance : Santa Clara Pueblo; Disaster assistance : South Dakota; Disaster assistance : Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; Disaster assistance : Texas; Disaster assistance : Vermont; Disaster assistance : Vermont ; Disaster assistance : West Virginia; Disaster assistance : Wisconsin; District of Columbia : American University; District of Columbia : Capital Area Food Bank; District of Columbia : Democratic Party events; District of Columbia : Food and Friends; District of Columbia : Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, District of Columbia Commission on; District of Columbia : Korean War Veterans Memorial; District of Columbia : Lincoln Memorial; District of Columbia : Marine Barracks Washington, D.C.; District of Columbia : Martha's Table, Inc.; District of Columbia : Molly Malone's restaurant; District of Columbia : National Cathedral; District of Columbia : Politics and Prose Bookstore and Modern Times Coffeehouse; District of Columbia : Shooting outside U.S. Capitol; District of Columbia : St. John's Church; District of Columbia : St. John's Episcopal Church; District of Columbia : Taylor Gourmet restaurant; District of Columbia : Walter E. Washington Convention Center; District of Columbia : Washington Navy Yard shootings; District of Columbia : WRC; Dominican Republic : U.S. Ambassador; Economic Co-operation and Development, Organisation for; Economy, national : Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; Economy, national : Economic concerns; Economy, national : Financial regulations, strengthening efforts; Economy, national : NASDAQ stock exchange, service disruption; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Education : Postsecondary education :: Affordability; Education : Postsecondary education :: Student loans, interest rates and refinancing; Education : Teachers; Education, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services; Education, Department of : Communications and Outreach, Assistant Secretary for; Education, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Education, Department of : General Counsel; Education, Department of : Postsecondary Education, Assistant Secretary for; Education, Department of : Rehabilitation Services Administration; Education, Department of : Secretary; Education, Department of : Under Secretary; Education, Department of: Civil Rights, Assistant Secretary for; Egypt : Democracy efforts; Egypt : Economic growth and development; Egypt : Human rights issues; Egypt : Political unrest and violence; Egypt : Political violence and unrest; Egypt : President; Egypt : Relations with U.S.; Eisenhower Memorial Commission, Dwight D.; El Salvador : Ambassador to U.S.; Election Commission, Federal; Elections : 2012 Presidential and congressional elections; Elections : Election Administration, Presidential Commission on; Elections : Voter participation; Elections : Voting Rights Act; Eliminate Child Abuse and Neglect Fatalities, Commission; Emergency Board No. 244, Presidential; Employment and unemployment : Young adults, employment opportunities; Energy : Alternative and renewable sources and technologies :: Promotion efforts; Energy : Renewable energy experts, meeting with President; Energy Regulatory Commission, Federal; Energy, Department of : Advanced Research Projects Agency—Energy; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs; Energy, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Fossil Energy; Energy, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Energy, Department of : General Counsel; Energy, Department of : International Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Energy, Department of : Nuclear Security Administration, National; Energy, Department of : Science, Office of; Energy, Department of : Science, Under Secretary for ; Energy, Department of : Under Secretary; Energy, Department of : Under Secretary for Nuclear Security; Environment Protection Agency; Environmental Cooperation, Commission for, Joint Public Advisory Committee; Environmental Protection Agency; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Estonia : President; Ethiopia : U.S. Ambassador; Europe : European Union :: Croatia, accession; Europe : European Union :: U.S. Representative; Export Council, President's; Export-Import Bank, U.S.; Fast for Families; Federal Aviation Administration : Deputy Administrator; Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board; Financial Services Forum; Fisher House Foundation; Florida : Dames Point Marine Terminal in Jacksonville; Florida : Democratic Party event; Florida : Disaster assistance; Florida : PortMiami in Miami; Florida : President's visit; Florida : WFLA in Tampa; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors, credentialing ceremony; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign diplomatic corps, White House reception; FOX : "FOX News Sunday" program; France : President; France : Relations with U.S.; Fusion network, joint venture with ABC; Gabon, U.S. Ambassador; General Services Administration; Georgia : College Heights Early Childhood Learning Center in Decatur; Georgia : President's visit; Georgia : President's visits; Georgia, Republic of : Ambassador to U.S.; Georgia, Republic of : President; Germany : Chancellor; Germany : Elections; Germany : German Chancellery in Berlin; Germany : Lindencorso building in Berlin; Germany : President; Germany : President Obama's visit; Germany : Relations with U.S.; Germany : Ritz Carlton, Berlin hotel in Berlin; Germany : Schloss Belevue in Berlin; Germany : Schloss Charlottenburg in Berlin; Germany : Social Democratic Party; Germany : U.S. Ambassador; Germany : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Global Development Council, President's; Government agencies and employees : Funding lapse and partial furlough; Government organization and employees : Restructuring and reform; Government organization and employees : Young leaders in Government program participants, meeting with President; Greece : Prime Minister; Greece : U.S. Ambassador; Hawaii : Bob's Pizzeria in Kailua; Hawaii : Island Snow Hawaii in Kailua; Hawaii : Kailua Beach Center in Kailua; Hawaii : President's visits; Hawaii : Stan Sheriff Center in Manoa; Health and Human Services : Secretary; Health and Human Services, Department of : Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; Health and Human Services, Department of : Indian Health Service; Health and Human Services, Department of : Planning and Evaluation, Assistant Secretary for; Health and Human Services, Department of : Secretary; Health and Human Services, Department of : Surgeon General; Health and medical care : Health insurance exchanges; Health and medical care : Health insurance reforms; Health and medical care : Information technology; Health and medical care : Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Heritage Abroad, Commission for the Preservation of America's; Historic Preservation, Advisory Council on ; Historic Preservation, Advisory Council on; Holidays and special observances : Christmas; Holidays and special observances : Easter; Holidays and special observances : Father's Day; Holidays and special observances : Greek Independence Day; Holidays and special observances : Halloween; Holidays and special observances : Korean War Veterans Armistice Day, National; Holidays and special observances : March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, 50th anniversary; Holidays and special observances : Memorial Day; Holidays and special observances : Passover; Holidays and special observances : Ramadan; Holidays and special observances : Ramazan Bayrami; Holidays and special observances : Thanksgiving Day; Holidays and special observances :Easter; Holidays and special observances :Veterans Day; Holocaust Memorial Council, U.S.; Holy See (Vatican City), U.S. Ambassador; Homeland Security, Department of : Chief Information Officer; Homeland Security, Department of : Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Officer; Homeland Security, Department of : Commissioner of Customs; Homeland Security, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Homeland Security, Department of : Domestic Nuclear Detection, Office of; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal; Homeland Security, Department of : General Counsel; Homeland Security, Department of : Inspector General; Homeland Security, Department of : Public Affairs, Assistant Secretary for"; Homeland Security, Department of : Secret Service, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Secretary; Homeland Security, Department of : Under Secretary for National Protection Programs; Homeland, Security, Department of : Secretary; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Policy Development and Research, Assistant Secretary for; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Public Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Secretary; Housing Finance Agency, Federal; Human Rights Campaign; Humanities, National Council on the; Hungary, U.S. Ambassador; Iceland, U.S. Ambassador; Illinois : Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont; Illinois : Disaster assistance; Illinois : Hyde Park Academy High School in Chicago; Illinois : President's visit; Illinois : President's visits; Illinois : WVON in Chicago; Immigration and naturalization : Reform; Indonesia : Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in Bali; Indonesia : President; Indonesia : President Obama's visit; Indonesia : Tran-Pacific Partnership leaders summit in Bali; Indonesia : U.S. Ambassador; Infrastructure Advisory Council, National; Insurance Commissioners, National Association of; Intelligence Advisory Board, President's; Inter-American Foundation; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretaries :: Land and Mineral Management; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretaries :: Policy, Management, and Budget; Interior, Department of the : Deputy Secretary; Interior, Department of the : Fish and Wildlife, Assistant Secretary for; Interior, Department of the : Insular Areas, Assistant Secretary for; Interior, Department of the : Land Management, Bureau of; Interior, Department of the : Secretary; International Development, U.S. Agency for ; Iowa : Disaster assistance; Iowa : KCCI in Des Moines; Iran : International diplomatic efforts; Iran : Nuclear weapons development; Iran : President; Iran : Relations with U.S.; Iraq : Prime Minister; Ireland : Prime Minister; Israel : Ben Gurion Airport in Lod; Israel : Cisco Israel in Netanya; Israel : Israel Museum in Jerusalem; Israel : King David Hotel in Jerusalem; Israel : Minister of Justice; Israel : Mount Herzl in Jerusalem; Israel : Parliamentary elections; Israel : President; Israel : President Obama's visit; Israel : Prime Minister; Israel : Relations with U.S.; Israel : Security cooperation with U.S.; Israel : U.S. Embassy and consular staff, meeting with President Obama in Jerusalem; Israel : Yad Vashem in Jerusalem; Italy : President; Italy : Prime Minister; Italy : Relations with U.S.; Italy : U.S. Ambassador; Italy: Prime Minister; J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board; Jamaica, U.S. Ambassador; Japan : Ambassador to U.S.; Japan : Prime Minister; Japan : Relations with U.S.; Japan : U.S. Ambassador; Jordan : King; Jordan : Petra ruins and monuments; Jordan : President Obama's visit; Jordan : U.S. Embassy staff and families, meeting with President Obama; Judiciary : Federal Claims, U.S. Court of; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and appointments; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and confirmations; Judiciary : Sentencing Commission, U.S.; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Chief Justice; Judiciary : Tax Court, U.S.; Justice : Department of : Bureau of Investigation, Federal; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs; Justice, Department of : Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Bureau of Investigation, Federal; Justice, Department of : Civil Division, Assistant Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Civil Rights, Assistant Attorney General for; Justice, Department of : Criminal Division, Assistant Attorney General for the; Justice, Department of : Environment and Natural Resources, Assistant Attorney General for; Justice, Department of : Joint Terrorism Task Forces; Justice, Department of : Justice Programs, Assistant Attorney General for; Justice, Department of : Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of; Justice, Department of : Marshals Service, U.S.; Justice, Department of : National Security, Assistant Attorney General; Justice, Department of : U.S. attorneys; Justice, Department of : Victims of Crime, Office for; Kansas : Disaster assistance; Kansas : President's visit; Kazakhstan : Ambassador to U.S.; Kenya : Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi; Kenya : President; Kenya : Republic of Kenya, 50th anniversary; Kenya : Terrorist attack at Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi; Kenya : U.S. Embassy bombing, 15th anniversary; Kids' State Dinner; Kuwait : Amir; Kuwait : U.S. Ambassador; Labor issues : Unions :: Labor movement and organized labor; Labor Relations Authority, Federal; Labor Relations Authority, Federal, Service Impasses Panel, Federal; Labor Relations Board, National; Labor, Department of : Employment and Training Administration, Assistant Secretary for; Labor, Department of : Inspector General; Labor, Department of : Secretary; Labor, Department of : Wage and House Division; Laos : U.S. Ambassador; Latino leaders, meeting with President; Latvia : President; Law enforcement and crime : Gun control; Law enforcement and crime : Gun violence, prevention efforts; Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; Lebanon : President; Lebanon : U.S. Ambassador; Legal Services Corporation; Legislation, enacted : HIV Organ Policy Equity Act; Legislation, enacted : National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013; Legislation, proposed : "Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act"; Lesotho : U.S. Ambassador; Library of Congress; Libya : Democracy efforts; Libya : International assistance; Libya : Prime Minister; Libya : U.S. Ambassador; Lithuania : President; Long-Term Care, Commission on; Louisiana : Disaster assistance; Louisiana : Governor; Louisiana : Napoleon Container Terminal in New Orleans; Louisiana : President's visit; Maine : Disaster assistance; Malawi, President; Malaysia : Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Kuala Lumpur; Malaysia : Parliamentary elections; Malaysia : President Obama's visit; Malaysia : Prime Minister; Malaysia : Relations with U.S.; Malaysia : U.S. Ambassador; Malaysia: Prime Minister; Maldives : Ambassador to U.S.; Mali : Political unrest and violence; Mali : President; Management and Budget, Office of; Marriage, Defense of Marriage Act; Marshall Islands, Disaster assistance; Maryland : Center for Urban Families in Baltimore; Maryland : Comcast Center in College Park; Maryland : Democratic Party events; Maryland : Ellicott Dredges, LLC, in Baltimore; Maryland : Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Monument; Maryland : Moravia Park Elementary School in Baltimore; Maryland : President's visit; Maryland : President's visits; Maryland : U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis; Maryland : Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda; Massachusetts : Charlie's Sandwich Shoppe in Boston; Massachusetts : City Hall Plaza in Boston; Massachusetts : Disaster assistance; Massachusetts : Governor; Massachusetts : Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston; Massachusetts : Nancy's Restaurant & Snack Bar in Oak Bluffs; Massachusetts : President's visit; Massachusetts : President's visits; Massachusetts : Reggie Lewis Track and Athletic Center ; Massachusetts : Terrorist attack in Boston; Mauritania, U.S. Ambassador; Mental Health, National Conference on; Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority; Mexico : Ambassador to U.S.; Mexico : Entrepreneurs, meeting with President Obama; Mexico : National Anthropology Museum in Mexico City; Mexico : President; Mexico : President Obama's visit; Mexico : Trade with U.S.; Mexico : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Michigan : Disaster assistance; Middle East : Arab-Israeli conflict, peace process; Middle East : U.S. Special Envoy for Israeli-Palestinian Negotiations; Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission; Millennium Challenge Corporation; Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, Federal; Minnesota : Disaster assistance; Minnesota : Minneapolis Police Department Special Operations Center in Minneapolis; Minnesota : President's visit; Mississippi : Disaster assistance; Mississippi River Commission; Missouri : Disaster assistance; Missouri : Ford Kansas City Assembly, stamping plant in Liberty; Missouri : President's visit; Mongolia : Ambassador to U.S.; Mongolia : President; Montana : Disaster assistance; Morocco : Democracy efforts; Morocco : King; Morocco : Relations with U.S.; Morocco : U.S. Ambassador; Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation; MSNBC : "Hardball With Chris Matthews" program; Museum and Library Services Board, National; Namibia : U.S. Ambassador; Nations United Nations : Secretary-General; Natural disasters : Arizona, wildfires; Natural disasters : California, wildfires; Natural disasters : Colorado, severe flooding; Natural disasters : Colorado, wildfires; Natural disasters : Hurricane Sandy; Natural disasters : Hurricane season, 2013; Natural disasters : Oklahoma, tornadoes; Natural Disasters : Philippines, Super Typhoon Haiyan; Natural disasters : Preparedness efforts; Natural disasters : Tropical Storm Karen; Natural disasters : Western States, wildfires; Navy, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Energy, Installations and Environment; Navy, Department of the : Comptroller; Navy, Department of the : Financial Management, Assistant Secretary for; Navy, Department of the : Marine Barracks Washington, D.C.; Navy, Department of the : Naval Academy, U.S.; Navy, Department of the : Secretary; Navy, Department of the : U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; Navy, Department of the : Washington Navy Yard shootings; NBC : "1600 Penn" program; NBC : "Today" program; NBC : "Today" show; NBC News; Nebraska, disaster assistance; Netherlands : King; Netherlands, the : U.S. Ambassador; Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship program participants, meeting with President; Nevada : President's visit; New Hampshire : Disaster assistance; New Jersey : Disaster assistance; New Jersey : Governor; New Jersey : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; New Jersey : Hurricane Sandy, recovery efforts; New Jersey : Long Beach Island Grade School in Surf City; New Jersey : Point Pleasant Beach boardwalk at Point Pleasant Beach; New Jersey : President's visit; New Jersey : Union Beach Memorial School in Union Beach; New Mexico : Disaster assistance; New Mexico : Río Grande del Norte National Monument; New York : Disaster assistance; New York : Governor; New York : Henninger High School in Syracuse; New York : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; New York : Magnolia's Deli and Cafe in Rochester; New York : Pathways in Technology Early College High School in New York City; New York : President's visit; New York : President's visits; New York : Tully Central High School in Tully; New York : WABC in New York City; New York : Women's Rights National Historical Park in Seneca Falls; New Zealand : Prime Minister; New Zealand : U.S. Ambassador; Niger : U.S. Ambassador; Nigeria : U.S. Ambassador; Nobel Laureates, meeting with President; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; North Carolina : Disaster assistance; North Carolina : Linamar North Carolina manufacturing facility in Arden; North Carolina : Mooresville Middle School in Mooresville; North Carolina : President's visit; North Dakota : Disaster assistance; North Korea : International diplomatic efforts; North Korea : Nuclear weapons development; North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission; Norway : Prime Minister; Norway : Relations with U.S.; Norway : U.S. Ambassador; Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission; Office of the White House : Vice President; Ohio : ArcelorMittal Cleveland in Cleveland; Ohio : Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Wilberforce; Ohio : Disaster assistance; Ohio : President's visit; Oklahoma : Disaster assistance; Oklahoma : Governor; Oklahoma : Plaza Towers Elementary in Moore; Oklahoma : President's visit; Oklahoma : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Overseas Private Investment Corporation; Pacific Ocean, Commission for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central; Pakistan : Education, women and girls; Pakistan : Parliamentary elections; Pakistan : Prime Minister; Pakistan : Relations with U.S.; Pakistan : Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan insurgent group; Pakistan : Terrorist attack; Palau : U.S. Ambassador; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : President; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : Prime Minister; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : West Bank :: Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : West Bank :: Church of Saint Catherine in Bethlehem; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : West Bank :: Muqata Presidential Compound in Ramallah; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : West Bank :: President Obama's visit; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : West Bank :: Youth Development Resource Center in Al-Bireh; Paraguay : Ambassador to U.S.; Paraguay : President; PBS : "Charlie Rose" program; PBS : "NewsHour" program; PBS : NewsHour program; Peace Corps, U.S.; Peace, U.S. Institute of; Pennsylvania : Bingham's Family Restaurant in Lenox; Pennsylvania : Disaster assistance; Pennsylvania : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; Pennsylvania : President's visit; Pennsylvania : WPVI in Philadelphia; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase From; Personnel Management, Office of; Peru : President; Peru : U.S. Ambassador; Philippines : President; Philippines : President Obama's visit; Philippines : Super Typhoon Haiyan, damage and recovery efforts; Philippines, the : U.S. Ambassador; Poland : Ambassador to U.S.; Poland : Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, 70th anniversary commemoration; Portugal, U.S. Ambassador; Postal Regulatory Commission; Postal Service, U.S.; Presidency, U.S. : Former President John F. Kennedy, 50th anniversary of assassination; Presidency, U.S. : Inauguration; Presidency, U.S. : State of the Union Address; Printing Office, Government; Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board; Public Broadcasting, Corporation for; Qatar : Amir; Qatar : Relations with U.S.; Railroad Passenger Corporation, National (AMTRAK); Railroad Retirement Board; Red Cross, International Committee of the; Religious Freedom, U.S. Commission on International; Religious leaders : African American faith leaders, meeting with President; Religious leaders : Meeting with President; Religious leaders, meeting with President; Reserve System, Federal; Rhode Island : Disaster assistance; Rhode Island: Disaster assistance; Russia : 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi; Russia : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Russia : Hospital fire in Ramenskiy; Russia : President; Russia : President Obama's visit; Russia : Relations with U.S.; Russia : Security cooperation with U.S.; Russia : St. Petersburg :: Constantine Palace; Russia : St. Petersburg :: Crowne Plaza St. Petersburg Airport hotel; Russia : St. Petersburg :: Grand Peterhof Palace; Russia : Syria, role; Russia Polar Bear Commission, U.S.-; Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation; San Marino : U.S. Ambassador; Santa Clara Pueblo, disaster assistance; Sao Tome and Principe, U.S. Ambassador; Saudi Arabia : King; Saudi Arabia : Minister of Interior; Saudi Arabia : Relations with U.S.; Saudi Arabia : U.S. Ambassador; Science and Technology Policy, Office of; Science Foundation, National; Science, President's Committee on the National Medal of; Securities and Exchange Commission; Securities Investor Protection Corporation; Security Agency, National; Security and Co-operation in Europe, Organization for; Security Council, National; Senate : Democratic Caucus; Senate : Majority Leader; Senate : Republican caucus; Senegal : President; Senegal : President Obama's visit; Senegal : Radisson Blu Hotel in Dakar; Senegal : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Senegal, President; Senegal, President Obama's visit; Sierra Leone : President; Sierra Leone : U.S. Ambassador; Singapore : Prime Minister; Singapore, U.S. Ambassador; Slovakia : Prime Minister; Smithsonian Institution : John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; Smithsonian Institution, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; Social Security Advisory Board; Somalia : Al Shabaab terrorist group; Somalia : President; South Africa : Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation Youth Center in Cape Town; South Africa : Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory in Johannesburg; South Africa : President; South Africa : President Obama's visit; South Africa : Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, Johannesburg in Sandton; South Africa : Relations with U.S.; South Africa : Table Bay Hotel in Cape Town; South Africa : U.S. Ambassador; South Africa : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; South Dakota : Disaster assistance; South Dakota, Disaster assistance; South Korea : Defense relationship with U.S.; South Korea : Korean war armistice agreement, 60th anniversary; South Korea : President; South Korea : Relations with U.S.; South Korea : Special Olympics World Winter Games in Pyeongchang; South Korea : U.S. Ambassador; South Sudan : Political unrest and violence; South Sudan : Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan; Southern States Energy Board; Space program : Aeronautics and Space Administration, National; Spain : Prime Minister; Spain, U.S. Ambassador; Sports : Auto racing; Sports : Baseball; Sports : Basketball; Sports : Football; Sports : Hockey; Sports : NASCAR; Sports : NCAA championship teams; Sports : Olympic Games; Sports : Soccer; Sports : Special Olympics Games; State, Department of : Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Economic and Business Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Intelligence and Research; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: International Organization Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Legislative Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: South Asian Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretaries :: Verification and Compliance; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for African Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Educational and Cultural Affairs; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs; State, Department of : Chief of Protocol; State, Department of : Counterterrorism, Coordinator for; State, Department of : East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; State, Department of : Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment, Under Secretary for; State, Department of : European and Eurasian Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; State, Department of : Foreign Service, Director General of the; State, Department of : Guantanamo Closure, Special Envoy for; State, Department of : Inspector General; State, Department of : International Communications and Information Policy, Deputy Assistant Secretary; State, Department of : Legal Adviser; State, Department of : Management and Resources, Deputy Secretary for; State, Department of : Nuclear Nonproliferation, Special Representative of the President for; State, Department of : Political-Military Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; State, Department of : Public Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; State, Department of : Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, Under Secretary for; State, Department of : Secretary; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights; Sudan : Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan; Surface Transportation Board; Sweden : Deputy Prime Minister; Sweden : Energy, alternative and renewable sources and technologies; Sweden : King; Sweden : President Obama's visit; Sweden : Prime Minister; Sweden : Queen; Sweden : Stockholm :: KTH Royal Institute of Technology; Sweden : Stockholm :: Royal Palace; Sweden : Stockholm :: Sager House; Sweden : U.S. Ambassador; Syria : Civil war and humanitarian crisis; Syria : Civil war and sectarian conflict; Syria : International diplomatic efforts; Syria : Political unrest and violence; Syria : Political violence and unrest; Tanzania : President; Tanzania : President Obama's visit; Tanzania : U.S. Ambassador; Tanzania : U.S. Embassy bombing in 1998, memorial in Dar es Salaam; Tanzania : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Tanzania : U.S. Peace Corps volunteers, video conference with President Obama; Tax Court, U.S.; Taxation : Tax Code, reform; Taxation : Tax-exempt organizations, approval process; Telemundo; Telemundo, "Noticiero Telemundo" program; Tennessee : President's visit; Tennessee : President's visit; Tennessee: Amazon Fulfillment Center in Chattanooga; Terrorism : Al Qaida terrorist organization; Terrorism : Counterterrorism efforts; Terrorism : Global threat; Terrorism : Ricin-laced letters sent to the White House and Senate offices; Terrorism : September 11, 2001, attacks; Texas : Austin :: Applied Materials Inc.; Texas : Austin :: Capital Factory; Texas : Austin :: Stubb's B-B-Q restaurant; Texas : Disaster assistance; Texas : George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas; Texas : Manor New Technology High School in Manor; Texas : President's visit; Texas : President's visits; Texas : Southern Methodist University in Dallas; Texas : West Fertilizer Co. Plant in West, explosion; Texas : West Fertilizer Company Plant in West; Timor-Leste : U.S. Ambassador; Trade Commission, Federal; Trade Commission, International; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S.; Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP); Transportation Safety Board, National; Transportation, Department of : Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs; Transportation, Department of : General Counsel; Transportation, Department of : Maritime Administration; Transportation, Department of : Research and Innovative Technology Administration; Transportation, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy; Treasury, Department of the : Chief Financial Officer; Treasury, Department of the : Comptroller of the Currency; Treasury, Department of the : Deputy Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Internal Revenue Service; Treasury, Department of the : Internal Revenue Service, acting Commissioner; Treasury, Department of the : Public Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary ; Trinidad and Tobago : U.S. Ambassador; Tunisia : Ambassador to U.S.; Turkey : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S ; Turkey : Political reform efforts; Turkey : Prime Minister; Tuvalu : Ambassador to U.S.; U.S. Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors to U.S., credentialing ceremony; Ukraine : U.S. Ambassador; United Arab Emirates : Abu Dhabi :: Crown Prince; United Arab Emirates : Abu Dhabi, Crown Prince; United Arab Emirates : Armed Forces, Deputy Supreme Commander; United Arab Emirates : Relations with U.S.; United Arab Emirates : Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Deputy; United Kingdom : Ambassador to U.S.; United Kingdom : Former Prime Minister, death; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: Deputy First Minister; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: Enniskillen Integrated Primary School in Enniskillen; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: First Minister; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: Lough Erne Resort in Enniskillen; United Kingdom : Northern Ireland :: President Obama's visit; United Kingdom : President Obama's visit; United Kingdom : Prime Minister; United Kingdom : Relations with U.S.; United Nations : Conference on Disarmament; United Nations : General Assembly; United Nations : Human Rights Council; United Nations : Secretary-General; United Nations : U.S. Permanent Representative; United Nations : U.S. Representative to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva; United Nations : U.S. Representatives :: Conference on Disarmament, U.S. Representative; United Nations : U.S. Representatives :: U.N. Management and Reform; United Nations : United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization; Univision; Univision, "Noticiero Univision" program; Urban Debate National Tournament, 2013 champions, meeting with President; Valles Caldera Trust; Vermont : Disaster assistance; Veterans : American Legion; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Chief Financial Officer; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Deputy Secretary; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Human Resources and Administration, Assistant Secretary for; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Management, Assistant Secretary for; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Assistant Secretary for; Vietnam : President; Vietnam Education Foundation; Virginia : Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington; Virginia : Governor-elect; Virginia : Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall; Virginia : President's visits; Virginia : WTVR in Richmond; Voluntarism; Washington : Democratic Party events; Washington : President's visit; Washington : San Juan Islands National Monument; West Virginia : Disaster assistance; White House Fellowships, President's Commission on; White House Office : Assistants to the President; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: : National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: : White House Coordinator for the Middle East; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: African Affairs, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Cabinet Secretary; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Communications Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Communications and Strategy, Deputy Senior Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Domestic Policy Council, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: International and Economic Affairs, Deputy National Security Adviser for; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Legislative Affairs, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Management and Administration; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Middle East, White House Coordinator for the; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Policy, Deputy Chief of Staff for; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Senior Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Speechwriting, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Speechwriting, Deputy Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Speechwriting; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: White House Counsel; White House Office : Assistants to the President ::Chief of Staff, Deputy; White House Office : Chief of Staff; White House Office : Director of National Intelligence ; White House Office : Economic Advisers, Council of; White House Office : Export Council, President's; White House Office : Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition, President's Council on; White House Office : Intelligence and Communications Technologies, President's Review Group on; White House Office : Interns; White House Office : National Security Adviser to the Vice President Deputy; White House Office : National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's; White House Office : Science and Technology Policy, Office of; White House Office : Science and Technology, President's Council of Advisers on; White House Office : Science and Technology, President's Council of Advisers; White House Office : Security Council, National; White House Office : Vice President; White House Office : White House Fellowships, President's Commission on; White House science fair; White House, Committee for the Preservation of the; Wisconsin : Disaster assistance; Women's Business Council, National; Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; World War I Centennial Commission; Zambia : Ambassador to U.S.; Zambia, U.S. Ambassador. 