Administration of Barack Obama, 2013 Nominations Submitted to the Senate December 20, 2013 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service Officers. Submitted January 4 Robert E. Bacharach, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Robert Harlan Henry, resigned. Caitlin Joan Halligan, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated. William J. Kayatta, Jr.,of Maine, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Kermit Lipez, retired. Jill A. Pryor, of Georgia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Stanley F. Birch, Jr., retired. Patty Shwartz, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Maryanne Trump Barry, retired. Srikanth Srinivasan, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice A. Raymond Randolph, retired. Richard Gary Taranto, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Paul R. Michel, retired. Elissa F. Cadish, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Philip M. Pro, retired. Valerie E. Caproni, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard J. Holwell, resigned. Sheri Polster Chappell, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Gregory A. Presnell, retired. Pamela Ki Mai Chen, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Raymond J. Dearie, retired. Brian J. Davis, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Richard A. Lazzara, retired. Shelly Deckert Dick, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana, vice Ralph E. Tyson, deceased. Jennifer A. Dorsey, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Larry R. Hicks, retired. Katherine Polk Failla, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Denise Cote, retired. Kenneth John Gonzales, of New Mexico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice Bruce D. Black, retired. Andrew Patrick Gordon, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Kent J. Dawson, retired. Ketanji Brown Jackson, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Henry Harold Kennedy, retired. Rosemary Mġrquez, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Frank R. Zapata, retired. Michael J. McShane, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Michael R. Hogan, retired. Raymond P. Moore, of Colorado, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Colorado, vice Wiley Y. Daniel, retired. Troy L. Nunley, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Garland E. Burrell, Jr., retired. Beverly Reid O'Connell,  of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Valerie L. Baker, retired. William H. Orrick, III, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Charles R. Breyer, retired. Nitza I. Quiħones Alejandro, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Richard Barclay Surrick, retired. Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Anita B. Brody, retired. Nelson Stephen Romġn, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard M. Berman, retired. Jeffrey L. Schmehl, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas M. Golden, deceased. William L. Thomas, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Adalberto Jose Jordan, elevated. Analisa Torres, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Naomi Reice Buchwald, retired. Derrick Kahala Watson, of Hawaii, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice David A. Ezra, retired. Mark A. Barnett, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Judith M. Barzilay, retired. Claire R. Kelly, of New York, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Evan J. Wallach, elevated. Submitted January 22 John Owen Brennan, of Virginia, to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice David H. Petraeus, resigned. Charles Timothy Hagel, of Nebraska, to be Secretary of Defense, vice Leon E. Panetta. John Forbes Kerry, of Massachusetts, to be Secretary of State, vice Hillary Rodham Clinton. Jacob J. Lew, of New York, to be Secretary of the Treasury, vice Timothy F. Geithner. Jacob L. Lew, of New York, to be U.S. Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; to be U.S. Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years, vice Timothy F. Geithner. Sylvia M. Becker, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. for the term expiring September 30, 2013, vice Ralph E. Martinez, term expired. Sylvia M. Becker, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. for the term expiring September 30, 2016 (reappointment). Robert F. Cohen, Jr., of West Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2018 (reappointment). Richard J. Engler, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice William E. Wright, term expired. Alan F. Estevez, of the District of Columbia, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice Frank Kendall III. Christopher J. Meade, of New York, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, vice George Wheeler Madison, resigned. David Medine, of Maryland, to be Chairman and member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2018 (new position). Carol Waller Pope, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2014 (reappointment). William B. Schultz, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services, vice Daniel Meron. Jeffrey Shell, of California, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2015, vice Walter Isaacson, term expired. Jeffrey Shell, of California, to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, vice Walter Isaacson, resigned. Frederick Vollrath, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (new position). Derek Anthony West, of California, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Thomas John Perrelli, resigned. Jenny R. Yang, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2017, vice Stuart Ishimaru, resigned. Submitted January 24 Nicholas Christopher Geale, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Elizabeth Dougherty, resigned.  Byron Todd Jones, of Minnesota, to be Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (new position). Marietta S. Robinson, of Michigan, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2010, vice Thomas Hill Moore, term expired.  Submitted January 28 Gerald Lyn Early, of Missouri, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Josiah Bunting, III, term expired. Patricia Nelson Limerick, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Robert S. Martin, term expired. Shelly Colleen Lowe, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Jane M. Doggett, term expired. Daniel Iwao Okimoto, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Mary Habeck, term expired. Katherine H. Tachau, of Iowa, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Jay Winik, term expired. Submitted January 31 Jane Kelly, of Iowa, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice Michael J. Melloy, retiring.  Gregory Alan Phillips, of Wyoming, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Terrence L. O'Brien, retiring. Submitted February 4 Eric K. Fanning, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Erin C. Conaton, resigned. Michael Wayne Hail, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2017, vice Sharon Tucker, term expired. F. Scott Kieff, of Illinois, to be a member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring June 16, 2020, vice Daniel Pearson, term expired. Janet Lorraine LaBreck, of Massachusetts, to be Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration, Department of Education, vice Lynnae M. Ruttledge, resigned. Submitted February 7 Raymond T. Chen, of Maryland, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Richard Linn, retired. Todd M. Hughes, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice William C. Bryson, retired. Sarah Jewell, of Washington, to be Secretary of the Interior, vice Kenneth Lee Salazar. Marilyn B. Tavenner, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Donald M. Berwick, resigned. Mary Jo White, of New York, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 5, 2014, vice Mary L. Schapiro, resigned. Mary Jo White, of New York, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2019 (reappointment). Submitted February 13 Sharon Block, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Craig Becker. Richard Cordray, of Ohio, to be Director, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection for a term of 5 years (new position). Richard F. Griffin, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2016, vice Wilma B. Liebman, term expired. Karol Virginia Mason, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Laurie O. Robinson, resigned. Submitted February 27 Jannette L. Dates, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2016, vice Ernest J. Wilson, III, term expired. Stephen J. Hadley, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term of 4 years, vice Judy Van Rest, term expired. Vincent G. Logan, of New York, to be Special Trustee, Office of Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior, vice Ross Owen Swimmer, resigned. Geoffrey R. Pyatt, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ukraine. Bruce M. Ramer, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2018 (reappointment). Submitted March 7 Sylvia Mathews Burwell, of West Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Jacob J. Lew, resigned. Ernest W. Dubester, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 29, 2017 (reappointment). Timothy Hyungrock Haahs, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2014, vice Morgan Edwards, term expired. Regina McCarthy, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Lisa Perez Jackson, resigned. Ernest J. Moniz, of Massachusetts, to be Secretary of Energy, vice Steven Chu. John Unsworth, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Jean B. Elshtain, term expired. Submitted March 13 Deborah Kay Jones, of New Mexico, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Libya. James Knight, of Alabama, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chad. Stephen Crawford, of Maryland, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the remainder of the term expiring December 8, 2015, vice Alan C. Kessler, resigned. James J. Jones, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Stephen Alan Owens, resigned. Kenneth J. Kopocis, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Peter Silva Silva, resigned. Olga Viso, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice William Francis Price, Jr., term expired. Withdrawn March 13 Elissa F. Cadish, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Philip M. Pro, retired, which was sent to the Senate on January 4, 2013. Submitted March 19 Patricia E. Campbell-Smith, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Lawrence Baskir, retiring. Elaine D. Kaplan, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of15 years, vice Christine O.C. Miller, term expired. Michael Kenny O'Keefe, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Joan Z. McAvoy, retired. Robert D. Okun, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Linda Kay Davis, retired. Thomas Edward Perez, of Maryland, to be Secretary of Labor, vice Hilda L. Solis, resigned. Catherine M. Russell, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues. Submitted March 21 Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2019 (reappointment). Stuart F. Delery, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Tony West. Fred P. Hochberg, of New York, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for a term expiring January 20, 2017 (reappointment). Allison M. Macfarlane, of Maryland, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a term expiring June 30, 2018 (reappointment). Patricia M. Wald, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2019 (reappointment). Marilyn A. Brown, of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2017 (reappointment). Vicki Miles-LaGrange, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2015, vice Roger L. Hunt, term expired. Kevin A. Ohlson, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for the term of 15 years to expire on the date prescribed by law, vice Andrew S. Effron, term expired. Ranee Ramaswamy, of Minnesota, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice Miguel Campaneria, term expired. Constance B. Tobias, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals for a term of 6 years, vice James Philip Terry, term expired. Withdrawn March 22 Caitlin Joan Halligan,, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated, which was sent to the Senate on January 4, 2013. Submitted April 8 Brian C. Deese, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Heather A. Higginbottom, resigned. Submitted April 9 Harry I. Johnson, III, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2015, vice Terence Francis Flynn, resigned. Philip Andrew Miscimarra, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2017, vice Brian Hayes, term expired. Mark Gaston Pearce, of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2018 (reappointment). Submitted April 11 Matthew C. Armstrong, of Illinois, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2015, vice Dana M. Perino, resigned. Rick Lowe, of Texas, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice JoAnn Faletta, term expired. Tulinabo Salama Mushingi, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso. Harry R. Hoglander, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2014 (reappointment). Dorothy Kosinski, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Ricardo Quinones, term expired. Linda A. Puchala, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Submitted April 15 Rachel Elise Barkow, of New York, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2017, vice Beryl A. Howell, term expired.  Charles R. Breyer, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2015, vice Ruben Castillo, term expired.  Vernon S. Broderick, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Deborah A. Batts, retired. William H. Pryor Jr., of Alabama, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2017, vice William B. Carr, Jr., term expired.  Submitted April 18 Henry J. Aaron, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2014, vice Jeffrey Robert Brown, term expired. Henry J. Aaron, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2020 (reappointment). Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years (reappointment). Avril D. Haines, of New York, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State, vice Harold Hongju Koh, resigned. Andrea Levere, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Nguyen Van Hanh, term expired. Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted April 23 David Michael Bennett, of North Carolina, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2018, vice Thurgood Marshall, Jr., term expired. Roberto R. Herencia, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2015 (reappointment). Carlos Pascual, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Energy Resources), vice John Stern Wolf. Yvette Roubideaux, of Maryland, to be Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, for the term of 4 years (reappointment). Submitted April 25 William S. Jasien, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2015, vice Terrence A. Duffy, term expired. Nanci E. Langley, of Hawaii, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring November 22, 2018 (reappointment). Brent Franklin Nelsen, of South Carolina, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2016, vice Gay Hart Gaines, term expired.  Howard A. Shelanski, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice Cass R. Sunstein, resigned. Submitted May 6 Colin Stirling Bruce, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Michael P. McCuskey, retiring. Sara Lee Ellis, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Joan B. Gottschall, retired. Andrea R. Wood, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice William J. Hibbler, deceased. Submitted May 7 Anthony Renard Foxx, of North Carolina, to be Secretary of Transportation, vice Ray LaHood. Michael Froman, of New York, to be U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, vice Ronald Kirk, resigned. Melvin L. Watt, of North Carolina, to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency for a term of 5 years (new position). Submitted May 9 Madeline Hughes Haikala, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice Inge Prytz Johnson, retired. Gregory Howard Woods, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Barbara S. Jones, retired. Mark D. Gearan, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 1, 2015 (reappointment). Rose Eilene Gottemoeller, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, vice Ellen O. Tauscher, resigned. Joseph W. Nega, of Illinois, to be a judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice Thomas B. Wells, retired. Penny Pritzker, of Illinois, to be Secretary of Commerce, vice John Edgar Bryson, resigned. Michael B. Thornton, of Virginia, to be a judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Davita Vance-Cooks, of Virginia, to be Public Printer, vice William J. Boarman. Thomas Edgar Wheeler, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2013, vice Julius Genachowski. Thomas Edgar Wheeler, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2013 (reappointment). Submitted May 13 Ryan Clark Crocker, of Washington, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2013, vice Victor H. Ashe, term expired. Ryan Clark Crocker, of Washington, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2016 (reappointment). Submitted May 16 Robert James Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Richard T. Metsger, of Oregon, to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring August 2, 2017, vice Gigi Hyland, resigned. Daniel R. Russel, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs), vice Kurt M. Campbell, resigned. Debra M. Brown, of Mississippi, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Mississippi, vice W. Allen Pepper, Jr., deceased. Carolyn B. McHugh, of Utah, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Michael R. Murphy, retired. Pamela L. Reeves, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Thomas W. Phillips, retiring. Elizabeth A. Wolford, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of New York, vice Charles J. Siragusa, retired. Submitted May 20 Jon M. Holladay, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture, vice Evan J. Segal. Submitted May 23 William Ira Althen,  of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2018, vice Michael F. Duffy, term expired. Katherine Archuleta,  of Colorado, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management for a term of 4 years, vice John Berry, term expired. Ann Marie Buerkle,  of New York, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2011, vice Anne M. Northup, term expired. James F. Entwistle,  of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Chai Rachel Feldblum,  of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2018 (reappointment). Douglas Edward Lute,  of Indiana, to be U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Victoria Nuland,  of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (European and Eurasian Affairs), vice Philip H. Gordon, resigned. Michael Sean Piwowar,  of Virginia, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2018, vice Troy A. Paredes, term expiring. Mark E. Schaefer,  of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Larry Robinson. Daniel A. Sepulveda,  of Florida, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Communications and Information Policy in the Bureau of Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs and U.S. Coordinator for International Communications and Information Policy. Lafe E. Solomon,  of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of 4 years, vice Ronald E. Meisburg, resigned. Kara Marlene Stein,  of Maryland, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2017, vice Elisse Walter, term expired. Daniel M. Tangherlini,  of the District of Columbia, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Martha N. Johnson, resigned. John H. Thompson,  of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Census for the remainder of the term expiring December 31, 2016, vice Robert M. Groves, resigned. Zachary Thomas Fardon, of Illinois, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois for the term of 4 years, vice Patrick J. Fitzgerald, term expired. Landya B. McCafferty, of New Hampshire, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Hampshire, vice Steven J. McAuliffe, retired. Brian Morris, of Montana, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Montana, vice Sam E. Haddon, retired. Susan P. Watters, of Montana, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Montana, vice Richard F. Cebull, retired. Submitted June 4 Patricia Ann Millett, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated. Cornelia T.L. Pillard, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Douglas H. Ginsburg, retired. Robert Leon Wilkins, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice David Bryan Sentelle, retired. Submitted June 7 Timothy L. Brooks, of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Arkansas, vice Jimm Larry Hendren, retired. Jeffrey Alker Meyer, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Mark R. Kravitz, deceased. Thomas C. Carper, of Illinois, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years (reappointment). Avi Garbow, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Colin Scott Cole Fulton, resigned. Thomas Hicks, of Virginia, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2013, vice Gracia M. Hillman, term expired. Thomas Hicks, of Virginia, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2017 (reappointment). Howard Abel Husock, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2018, vice Chris Boskin, term expired. Laurie I. Mikva, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2013 (reappointment). Laurie I. Mikva, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2016 (reappointment). Myrna Perez, of Texas, to be a member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2015, vice Rosemary E. Rodriguez, term expired. Submitted June 11 Daniel Brooks Baer, of Colorado, to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador. Michael G. Carroll, of New York, to be Inspector General, U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Donald A. Gambatesa, resigned. James Cole, Jr., of New York, to be General Counsel, Department of Education, vice Charles P. Rose. Jason Furman, of New York, to be member and Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Alan B. Krueger. Keith Michael Harper, of Maryland, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the U.N. Human Rights Council. Catherine Elizabeth Lhamon, of California, to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Department of Education, vice Russlynn Ali. Stephen Woolman Preston, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Defense, vice Jeh Charles Johnson, resigned. Submitted June 13 John Gerson Levi, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Mark Thomas Nethery, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Eric D. Eberhard, term expired. Samantha Power, of Massachusetts, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations. Samantha Power, of Massachusetts, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. Charles P. Rose, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring May 26, 2019, vice Robert Boldrey, term expired. Stephanie Sanders Sullivan, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Congo. Joseph Y. Yun, of Oregon, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Malaysia. Withdrawn June 13 Avril D. Haines, of New York, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State, vice Harold Hongju Koh, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on April 18, 2013. Submitted June 17 Liliana Ayalde, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federative Republic of Brazil. James Costos, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Spain. John B. Emerson, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Germany. John Rufus Gifford, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Denmark. Kenneth Francis Hackett, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Holy See. Patricia Marie Haslach, of Oregon, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Submitted June 20 James Donato, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice James Ware, retired. Beth Labson Freeman, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice an additional position in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1). Jennifer Prescod May-Parker, of North Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, vice Malcolm J. Howard, retired. Submitted June 21 James B. Comey, Jr., of Connecticut, to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a term of 10 years, vice Robert S. Mueller, III, term expiring. James C. Miller, III, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the term expiring December 8, 2017 (reappointment). Anne J. Udall, of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2016 (reappointment). Submitted June 24 Denise Campbell Bauer, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belgium. Morrell John Berry, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Australia. James Walter Brewster, Jr., of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic. Reuben Earl Brigety, II, of Florida, to be Representative of the United States of America to the African Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Daniel A. Clune, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Lee E. Goodman, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2015, vice Donald F. McGahn, term expired. David Hale, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lebanon. Michael A. Hammer, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile. Terence Patrick McCulley, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire. Terrell McSweeny, of the District of Columbia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the unexpired term of 7 years from September 26, 2010, vice Jon D. Leibowitz, resigned. Brian A. Nichols, of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Peru. David D. Pearce, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Greece. Ann Miller Ravel, of California, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2017, vice Cynthia L. Bauerly, resigned. Jon T. Rymer, of Tennessee, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense, vice Gordon S. Heddell, resigned. Loretta Cheryl Sutliff, of Nevada, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2018 (reappointment). Linda Thomas-Greenfield, of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), vice Johnnie Carson. Submitted June 26 Pedro A. Delgado Hernġndez, of Puerto Rico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Daniel R. Dominguez, retired. Bruce Howe Hendricks, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Margaret B. Seymour, retired. Alison Renee Lee, of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Cameron M. Currie, retiring.  Submitted June 27 Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr., of Louisiana, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana for the term of 4 years, vice James B. Letten, resigned. James Costos, of California, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Andorra. Ronald J. Binz, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2018,vice Jon Wellinghoff, term expiring. Robert Bonnie, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, vice Harris D. Sherman, resigned. Patrick Hubert Gaspard, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa.  Krysta L. Harden, of Georgia, to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture, vice Kathleen A. Merrigan, resigned. Ellen C. Herbst, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Scott Boyer Quehl, resigned. Ellen C. Herbst, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Commerce, vice Scott Boyer Quehl, resigned. Steve A. Linick, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of State, vice Howard J. Krongard, resigned. Alejandro Nicholas Mayorkas, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Jane Holl Lute, resigned. Katherine M. O'Regan, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Raphael William Bostic. Susan J. Rabern, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Gladys Commons, resigned. James C. Swan,  of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Kirk W. B. Wagar, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore. Alexa Lange Wesner, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Austria. Submitted July 9 Mark Bradley Childress, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania. Wanda Felton, of New York, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2017 (reappointment). Tomasz P. Malinowski, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, vice Michael H. Posner, resigned. Dennis V. McGinn, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Jackalyne Pfannenstiel, resigned. Carlos Roberto Moreno, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize. Evan Ryan, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs), vice Judith Ann Stewart Stock, resigning. Submitted July 10 Matthew Winthrop Barzun, of Kentucky, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Margaret Louise Cummisky, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice April S. Boyd, resigned. John Hoover, of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Sierra Leone. Crystal Nix-Hines, of California, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. John R. Phillips, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Italian Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of San Marino. Michael Keith Yudin, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, vice Alexa E. Posny. Submitted July 11 William Ward Nooter, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice A. Franklin Burgess, retiring. Submitted July 15 Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, of Missouri, to be a member of the United States International Trade Commission for a term expiring December 16, 2021, vice Shara L. Aranoff, term expired. Gregory Dainard Winfree, of New York, to be Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation, vice Peter H. Appel. Submitted July 16 Kent Yoshiho Hirozawa, of New York, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2016, vice Wilma B. Liebman, term expired. Nancy Jean Schiffer, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Craig Becker. Withdrawn July 16 Sharon Block, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Craig Becker, which was sent to the Senate on February 13, 2013. Richard F. Griffin, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2016, vice Wilma B. Liebman, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on February 13, 2013. Submitted July 19 Nisha Desai Biswal, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs, vice Robert Orris Blake, Jr. Timothy M. Broas, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Scott S. Dahl, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Labor, vice Gordon S. Heddell, resigned.  Julia Frifield, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs), vice David S. Adams, resigned. Martha L. Minow, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Joseph Pius Pietrzyk, of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Carolyn Hessler Radelet, of Virginia, to be Director of the Peace Corps, vice Aaron S. Williams, resigned. Elizabeth M. Robinson, of Washington, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned. Frank A. Rose, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Verification and Compliance), vice Rose Eilene Gottemoeller. Adam M. Scheinman, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Special Representative of the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the rank of Ambassador. Jessica Garfola Wright, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Erin C. Conaton, resigned. Submitted July 25 Vince Girdhari Chhabria, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Susan Y. Illston, retired. Matthew Frederick Leitman, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Marianne O. Battani, retired. Judith Ellen Levy, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Nancy G. Edmunds, retired. Laurie J. Michelson, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice George Caram Steeh III, retired. James Maxwell Moody Jr., of Arkansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, vice Susan Webber Wright, retiring. Linda Vivienne Parker, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Robert H. Cleland, retired. Leslie E. Bains, of New York, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice William S. Jasien, term expired. Tony Hammond, of Missouri, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission for a term expiring October 14, 2018 (reappointment). Caroline Kennedy, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan. Marcel J. Lettre II, of Maryland, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (new position). Donald Lu, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Albania. Robert A. Sherman, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Portuguese Republic. Robert Michael Simon, of Maryland, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Sherburne B. Abbott. Submitted July 30 Nicholas Christopher Geale,  of Virginia, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2016 (reappointment). Submitted July 31 Robert O. Blake, Jr., of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia. Michael L. Connor, of New Mexico, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice David J. Hayes, resigned. France A. Cordova, of New Mexico, to be Director of the National Science Foundation for a term of 6 years, vice Subra Suresh, resigned. Thomas Frederick Daughton, of Arizona, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia. John L. Estrada, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Sylvia I. Garcia, of Michigan, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Transportation, vice Christopher P. Bertram, resigned. Philip S. Goldberg, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines. Jo Emily Handelsman, of Connecticut, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Carl Wieman, resigned. Michael Stephen Hoza, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon. Amy Jane Hyatt, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau. Noah Bryson Mamet, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Argentine Republic. L. Paige Marvel, of Maryland, to be a judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Kenneth L. Mossman, of Arizona, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2016, vice John Edward Mansfield, term expired. Sarah Bloom Raskin, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Neal S. Wolin. Eunice S. Reddick, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger. Karen Clark Stanton, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. Gregory B. Starr, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security), vice Eric J. Boswell, resigned. Kenneth R. Weinstein, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2014, vice Dennis Mulhaupt, resigned. Submitted August 1 Gary Blankinship, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Ruben Monzon, resigned. Christopher Reid Cooper, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Royce C. Lamberth, retired. Daniel D. Crabtree, of Kansas, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Kansas, vice John W. Lungstrum, retired. Michelle T. Friedland, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Raymond C. Fisher, retired. M. Douglas Harpool, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Richard E. Dorr, deceased. Robert L. Hobbs, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice John Lee Moore, term expired. Sheryl H. Lipman, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Jon P. McCalla, retired. Gerald Austin McHugh, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Harvey Bartle, III, retired. Nancy L. Moritz, of Kansas, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Deanell Reece Tacha, retired. John B. Owens, of California, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Stephen S. Trott, retired. Amos Rojas, Jr., of Florida, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Christina Pharo, term expired. Edward G. Smith, of Pennsylvania, to be U. S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Berle M. Schiller, retired. Peter C. Tobin, of Ohio, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Ohio for a term of 4 years, vice Cathy Jo Jones, resigned. Stevan Eaton Bunnell, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel, Department of Homeland Security, vice Ivan K. Fong, resigned. Dwight L. Bush, Sr., of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco. Steven Croley, of Michigan, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy, vice Gregory Howard Woods. Karen Dynan, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Janice Eberly. J. Christopher Giancarlo, of New Jersey, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of the term expiring April 13, 2014, vice Jill Sommers, resigned. Richard F. Griffin, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of 4 years, vice Ronald E. Meisburg, resigned. Pamela K. Hamamoto, of Hawaii, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Betty E. King. Matthew T. Harrington, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho. Christopher A. Hart, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2017 (reappointment). Deborah A. P. Hersman, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years.(reappointment). Deborah A. P. Hersman, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2018 (reappointment). Deborah Lee James, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Air Force, vice Michael Bruce Donley, resigned. Peter Joseph Kadzik, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Ronald H. Weich, resigned. R. Gil Kerlikowske, of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice Alan D. Bersin, resigned. Frank G. Klotz, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, vice Thomas P. D'Agostino, resigned. John Andrew Koskinen, of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the term expiring November 12, 2017, vice Douglas H. Shulman, term expired. Michael P. O'Rielly, of New York, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2014, vice Robert M. McDowell, resigned. Anne W. Patterson, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Ambassador, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs), vice C. David Welch, resigned. Patrick Pizzella, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2015, vice Thomas M. Beck, resigned. Linda A. Schwartz, of Connecticut, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Raul Perea-Henze, resigned. Sarah Sewall, of Massachusetts, to be an Under Secretary of State (Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights), vice Maria Otero, resigned. Suzanne Eleanor Spaulding, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary, Department of Homeland Security, vice Rand Beers. Kathryn D. Sullivan, of Ohio, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Jane Lubchenco, resigned. Withdrawn August 1 Lafe E. Solomon, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of 4 years, vice Ronald E. Meisburg, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on May 23, 2013. Submitted September 11 Larry Edward Andrĥ, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Elizabeth Frawley Bagley, of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. John P. Carlin, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Lisa O. Monaco, resigned. Beth F. Cobert, of California, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Jeffrey D. Zients, resigned. Bradley Crowell, of Nevada, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs), vice Jeffrey A. Lane. Richard G. Frank, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Sherry Glied, resigned. Anthony Luzzatto Gardner, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Sloan D. Gibson, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice W. Scott Gould. Heather Anne Higginbottom, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources, vice Thomas R. Nides, resigned. Paul Nathan Jaenichen, Sr., of Kentucky, to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration, vice David T. Matsuda, resigned. Esther Puakela Kia'aina, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Anthony Marion Babauta. Helen Meagher La Lime, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola. Michael Anderson Lawson, of California, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization. Barbara Lee, of California, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Michael D. Lumpkin, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Michael A. Sheehan. Mark Meadows, of North Carolina, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Luis G. Moreno, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica. Jamie Michael Morin, of Michigan, to be Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense, vice Christine H. Fox, resigned. Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Robert O. Work, resigned. James H. Shelton III, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Education, vice Anthony W. Miller, resigned. Christopher Smith, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice Charles DeWitt McConnell, resigned. Theodore Strickland, of Ohio, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Puneet Talwar, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs), vice Andrew J. Shapiro. George James Tsunis, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Norway. Victoria Marie Baecher Wassmer, of Illinois, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Barbara J. Bennett, resigned. David Weil, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp. Roy K.J. Williams, of Ohio, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, vice John R. Fernandez, resigned. Daniel W. Yohannes, of Colorado, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the rank of Ambassador. Stephen N. Zack, of Florida, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Submitted September 17 Cynthia H. Akuetteh, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Gabonese Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. David J. Arroyo, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2016, vice Elizabeth Courtney, term expired. Camilla C. Feibelman, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring April 15, 2017, vice Stephen M. Prescott, term expired. Eric T. Schultz, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zambia. Submitted September 18 Tamara Wenda Ashford, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice Mary Ann Cohen, retired. Leslie Ragon Caldwell, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Lanny A. Breuer, resigned. Richard Stengel, of New York, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice Tara D. Sonenshine. Submitted September 19 Cynthia Ann Bashant, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Irma E. Gonzalez, retired. Stanley Allen Bastian, of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Washington, vice Edward F. Shea, retired. Diane J. Humetewa, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Mary H. Murguia, elevated. Jon David Levy, of Maine, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maine, vice George Z. Singal, retired. Steven Paul Logan, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice James A. Teilborg, retired. Douglas L. Rayes, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Frederick J. Martone, retired. Manish S. Shah, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Joan Humphrey Lefkow, retired. John Joseph Tuchi, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Roslyn Moore-Silver, retired. Submitted September 23 Bruce Heyman, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Canada. Charles Norman Wiltse Keckler, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2016 (reappointment). Kathryn B. Thompson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, vice Robert S. Rivkin, resigned. Kevin Whitaker, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia. Submitted September 24 David Jeremiah Barron, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Michael Boudin, retired. Mark G. Mastroianni, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Michael A. Ponsor, retired. Indira Talwani, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Mark L. Wolf, retired. Submitted September 25 Steven Joel Anthony, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2018, vice Jerome F. Kever, term expired. Susan McCue, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 3 years, vice Kenneth Francis Hackett, term expired. Debra L. Miller, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2017, vice Francis Mulvey, term expired. Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be an Under Secretary of State (Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment), vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Theodore David Chuang, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Roger W. Titus, retiring. George Jarrod Hazel, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Alexander Williams, Jr., retired. Submitted September 30 Dana J. Hyde, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation, vice Daniel W. Yohannes. Mark E. Lopes, of Arizona, to be U.S. Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Gustavo Arnavat, resigned. Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 5 years; U.S. Alternate Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of 5 years, vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Lanhee J. Chen, of California, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2018, vice Mark J. Warshawsky, term expired. Alan L. Cohen, of Virginia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2016, vice Dana K. Bilyeu, term expired. Submitted October 7 Arnold A. Chacon, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Director General of the Foreign Service, vice Linda Thomas-Greenfield, resigned. Arun Madhavan Kumar, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, vice Suresh Kumar, resigned. Daniel Bennett Smith, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research), vice Philip S. Goldberg. Helen Tierney, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs. Kelly R. Welsh, of Illinois, to be General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, vice Cameron F. Kerry. Submitted October 9 Janet L. Yellen, of California, to be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years, vice Ben S. Bernanke, resigned. Submitted October 28 Alfredo J. Balsera, of Florida, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2014, vice Elizabeth F. Bagley, term expired. Jeh Charles Johnson, of New Jersey, to be Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Janet Ann Napolitano, resigned. Withdrawn October 28 Ronald J. Binz, of Colorado, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2018, vice Jon Wellinghoff, term expiring, which was sent to the Senate on June 27, 2013. Submitted October 30 Robert C. Barber, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland. Nani A. Coloretti, of California, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice Daniel M. Tangherlini, resigned. Bathsheba Nell Crocker, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (International Organization Affairs), vice Esther Brimmer, resigned. Jonathan Elkind, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs), vice David B. Sandalow, resigned. Mark Gilbert, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to New Zealand. Joseph S. Hezir, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy, vice Steven Jeffrey Isakowitz, resigned. Tina S. Kaidanow, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank and status of Ambassador at Large, vice Daniel Benjamin, resigned. William A. LaPlante, Jr., of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Sue C. Payton. Theodore Reed Mitchell, of California, to be Under Secretary of Education, vice Martha J. Kanter. Massie Ritsch, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Communications and Outreach, Department of Education, vice Peter Cunningham. Charles Hammerman Rivkin, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Economic and Business Affairs), vice Jose W. Fernandez, resigned. Rhea Sun Suh, of Colorado, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, vice Thomas L. Strickland, resigned. Submitted November 7 Colleen Bradley Bell, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Hungary. Madelyn R. Creedon, of Indiana, to be Principal Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear Security Administration, vice Neile L. Miller, resigned. Joseph P. Mohorovic, of Illinois, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of seven years from October 27, 2012, vice Nancy Ann Nord, term expired. Janice Marion Schneider, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Wilma A. Lewis, resigned. Joseph William Westphal, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Ellen Dudley Williams, of Maryland, to be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, Department of Energy, vice Arun Majumdar, resigned. Janet L. Yellen, of California, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years, vice Ben S. Bernanke, term expired. James D. Peterson, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Wisconsin, vice John C. Shabaz, retired. Robin S. Rosenbaum,  of Florida, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Rosemary Barkett, resigned. Nancy J. Rosenstengel, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Illinois, vice G. Patrick Murphy, retiring. Kevin W. Techau, of Iowa, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa for the term of 4 years, vice Stephanie M. Rose, resigned. Ronnie L. White, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice Jean C. Hamilton, retired. Withdrawn November 7 Ben S. Bernanke, of New Jersey, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on April 18, 2013. Thomas Edgar Wheeler, of the District of Columbia, to be member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2013, vice Julius Genachowski, which was sent to the Senate on May 9, 2013. Submitted November 12 Tommy Port Beaudreau, of Alaska, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Rhea S. Suh. Thomas A. Burke, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Paul T. Anastas, resigned. Neil Gregory Kornze, of Nevada, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management, vice Robert V. Abbey, resigned. Caroline Diane Krass, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice Stephen Woolman Preston, resigned. Ericka M. Miller, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, vice Eduardo M. Ochoa. Stefan M. Selig, of New York, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, vice Francisco J. Sanchez, resigned. Submitted November 13 Mark Gilbert, of the District of Columbia, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Independent State of Samoa. Timothy G. Massad, of Connecticut, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2017, vice Gary Gensler, term expired. Timothy G. Massad, of Connecticut, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, vice Gary Gensler. Submitted November 18 Debo P. Adegbile, of New York, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Thomas E. Perez, resigned. Marc A. Kastner, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Office of Science, Department of Energy, vice William F. Brinkman. Harry James Franklyn Korrell III, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Mark E. Lopes, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2016, vice Hector E. Morales, term expired. Victor B. Maddox, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2016 (reappointment). Vivek Hallegere Murthy, of Massachusetts, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a term of 4 years, vice, Regina M. Benjamin, resigned. Franklin M. Orr, Jr., of California, to be Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy, vice Steven Elliot Koonin. Submitted November 19 Linda Thomas-Greenfield, an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 27, 2015, vice Johnnie Carson. Submitted November 21 Andrew Mark Luger, of Minnesota, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota for the term of 4 years, vice B. Todd Jones, term expired. Damon Paul Martinez, of New Mexico, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico for the term of 4 years, vice Kenneth J. Gonzales, resigned. Sherry Moore Trafford, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Natalia Combs Greene, retired. Steven M. Wellner, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Kaye K. Christian, retired. Brad R. Carson, of Oklahoma, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Joseph W. Westphal. Maureen Elizabeth Cormack, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Richard A. Kennedy, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring May 30, 2016, vice William Cobey, term expired. Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. Leslie Berger Kiernan, of Maryland, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. Heather L. MacDougall, of Florida, to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2017, vice Horace A. Thompson, term expired. David Radzanowski, of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Elizabeth M. Robinson. John Roth, of Michigan, to be Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security, vice Richard L. Skinner, resigned. Submitted December 13 Thomas Edgar Rothman, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Peter A. Selfridge, of Minnesota, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, vice Capricia Penavic Marshall, resigned. Douglas Alan Silliman, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait. Robert A. Wood, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the Conference on Disarmament. Portia Y. Wu, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Jane Oates. Submitted December 17 Elisebeth Collins Cook, of Virginia, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2020 (reappointment). Submitted December 19 Michael P. Boggs, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Julie E. Carnes. Julie E. Carnes, of Georgia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the 11th Circuit, vice James Larry Edmondson, retired. Tanya S. Chutkan, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice an additional position in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1). Mark Howard Cohen, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Clarence Cooper, retired. Gregg Jeffrey Costa, of Texas, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Fortunato P. Benavides, retired. M. Hannah Lauck, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice James R. Spencer, retiring. Leigh Martin May, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Beverly B. Martin, elevated. Eleanor Louise Ross, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Charles A. Pannell, Jr., retired. Leo T. Sorokin, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Joseph L. Tauro, retired. James Alan Soto, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice David C. Bury, retired. Names: Aaron, Henry J.; Adegbile, Debo P.; Akuetteh, Cynthia H.; Althen, William I.; Andrĥ, Larry E., Jr.; Anthony, Steven J.; Archuleta, Katherine; Armstong, Matthew C.; Arroyo, David J.; Ashford, Tamara W.; Attwood, Cynthia L.; Ayalde, Liliana; Bacharach, Robert E.; Baer, Daniel B.; Bagley, Elizabeth Frawley; Bains, Leslie E.; Balsera, Alredo J.; Barber, Robert C.; Barkow, Rachel E.; Barnett, Mark A.; Barron, David J.; Barzun, Matthew W.; Bashant, Cynthia A.; Bastian, Stanley A.; Bauer, Denise Campbell; Beaudreau, Thomas P.; Becker, Sylvia M.; Bell, Colleen Bradley; Bennett, David M.; Bernanke, Ben S.; Berry, M. John; Binz, Ronald J.; Biswal, Nisha D.; Blake, Robert O., Jr.; Blankinship, Gary; Block, Sharon; Boggs, Michael P.; Bonnie, Robert; Brennan, John O.; Brewster, James W., Jr.; Breyer, Charles R.; Brigety, Reuben E., II; Broas, Timothy M.; Broderick, Vernon S.; Brooks, Timothy L.; Brown, Debra M.; Brown, Marilyn A.; Bruce, Colin S.; Buerkle, Ann M.; Bunnell, Stevan E.; Burke, Thomas A.; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Bush, Dwight L., Sr.; Cadish, Elissa F.; Caldwell, Leslie R.; Campbell-Smith, Patricia E.; Caproni, Valerie E.; Carlin, John P.; Carnes, Julie E.; Carper, Thomas C.; Carroll, Michael G.; Carson, Brad R.; Chacon, Arnold A.; Chappell, Sheri Polster; Chen, Lanhee J.; Chen, Pamela Ki Mai; Chen, Raymond T.; Chhabria, Vince G.; Childress, Mark B.; Chuang, Theodore D.; Chutkan, Tanya S.; Clune, Daniel A.; Cobert, Beth F.; Cohen, Alan J.; Cohen, Mark H.; Cohen, Richard F., Jr.; Cole, James, Jr.; Coloretti, Nani A.; Comey, James B., Jr.; Connor, Michael L.; Cook, Elisabeth Collins; Cooper, Christopher R.; Cordova, France A.; Cordray, Richard; Cormack, Maureen E.; Costa, Gregg J.; Costos, James; Crabtree, Daniel D.; Crawford, Stephen; Creedon, Madelyn R.; Crocker, Bathsheba N.; Crocker, Ryan C.; Croley, Steven; Crowell, Bradley; Cummisky, Margaret L.; Dahl, Scott S.; Dates, Jannette L.; Daughton, Thomas F.; Davis, Brian J.; Deese, Brian C.; Delery, Stuart F.; Delgado Hernġndez, Pedro A.; Dick, Rachelle "Shelly" Deckert; Donato, James; Dorsey, Jennifer A.; Dubester, Ernest W.; Dynan, Karen; Early, Gerald L.; Elkind, Jonathan; Ellis, Sara Lee; Emerson, John B.; Engler, Richard J.; Entwistle, James F.; Estevez, Alan F.; Estrada, John L.; Failla, Katherine Polk; Fanning Eric K.; Fardon, Zachary T.; Feibelman, Camilla C.; Feldblum, Chai R.; Felton, Wanda; Foxx, Anthony R.; Frank, Richard G.; Freeman, Beth L.; Friedland, Michelle T.; Frifield, Julia; Froman, Michael B.; Furman, Jason L.; Garbow, Avi; Garcia, Sylvia I.; Gardner, Anthony L.; Gaspard, Patrick H.; Geale, Nicholas C.; Gearan, Mark D.; Giancarlo, J. Christopher; Gibson, Sloan D.; Gifford, John R.; Gilbert, Mark; Goldberg, Philip S.; Gonzales, Kenneth J.; Goodman, Lee E.; Gordon, Andrew P.; Gottemoeller, Rose E.; Grey, Robert J., Jr.; Griffin, Richard F., Jr; Griffin, Richard F., Jr.; Haahs, Timothy H.; Hackett, Kenneth F.; Hadley, Stephen J.; Hagel, Charles T.; Haikala, Madeline Hughes; Hail, Michael W.; Haines, Avril D.; Hale, David; Halligan, Caitlin J.; Hamamoto, Pamela K.; Hammer, Michael A.; Hammond, Tony; Handelsman, Jo E.; Harden, Krysta L.; Harper, Keith M.; Harpool, M. Douglas; Harrington, Matthew T.; Hart, Christopher A.; Haslach, Particia M.; Hazel, George J.; Hendricks, Bruce H.; Herbst, Ellen C.; Herencia, Roberto R.; Hersman, Deborah A. P.; Heyman, Bruce; Hezir, Joseph S.; Hicks, Thomas; Higginbottom, Heather A.; Hirozawa, Kent Y.; Hobbs, Robert L.; Hochberg, Fred P.; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holladay, Jon M.; Hoover, John; Hoza, Michael S.; Hughes, Todd M.; Humetewa, Diane J.; Husock, Howard A.; Hyatt, Amy J.; Hyde, Dana J.; Jackson, Ketanji Brown; Jaenichen, Paul N., Jr.; James, Deborah L.; Jasien, William S.; Jewell, Sarah; Johnson, Harr I., III; Johnson, Jeh C.; Jones, Byron T.; Jones, Deborah K.; Jones, James J.; Kadzik, Peter J.; Kaidanow, Tina S.; Kaplan, Elaine D.; Kastner, Marc A.; Kayatta, William J., Jr.; Keckler, Charles N.W.; Kelly, Claire R.; Kelly, Jane; Kennedy, Caroline B.; Kennedy, Richard A.; Kerlikowske, R. Gil; Kerry, Cameron F.; Kerry, John F.; Kia'aina, Esther P.; Kieff, F. Scott; Kiernan, Leslie Berger; Klotz, Frank G.; Knight, James; Kopocis, Kenneth J.; Kornze, Neil G.; Korrell, Henry J.F., III; Kosinski, Dorothy; Koskinen, John A.; Krass, Caroline D.; Kumar, Arun M.; Kumar, Suresh; La Lime, Helen Meagher; LaBreck, Janet L.; Langley, Nanci E.; LaPlante, William A., Jr.; Lauck, M. Hannah; Lawson, Michael A.; Lee, Alison Renee; Lee, Barbara; Leitman, Matthew F.; Lettre, Marcel J., II; Levere, Andrea; Levi, John G.; Levy, Jon D.; Levy, Judith E.; Lew, Jacob J. "Jack"; Lhamon, Catherine E.; Limerick, Patricia N.; Linick, Steve A.; Lipman, Sheryl H.; Logan, Steven P.; Logan, Vincent G.; Lopes, Mark E.; Lowe, Rick; Lowe, Shelly C.; Lu, Donald; Luger, Andrew M.; Lumpkin, Michael D.; Lute, Douglas E.; MacDougall, Heather L.; Macfarlane, Allison M.; Maddox, Victor B.; Malinowski, Tomasz P.; Mamet, Noah B.; Mġrquez, Rosemary; Martinez, Damon P.; Marvel, L. Paige; Mason, Karol V.; Massad, Timothy G.; Mastroianni, Mark G.; May, Leigh Martin; Mayorkas, Alejandro N.; May-Parker, Jennifer P.; McCafferty, Landya B.; McCarthy, Regina; McCue, Susan; McCulley, Terence P.; McGinn, Dennis V.; McHugh, Carolyn B.; McHugh, Gerald A., Jr.; McShane, Michael J.; McSweeny, Terrell; Meade, Christopher J.; Meadows, Mark; Medine, David; Metsger, Richard T.; Meyer, Jeffrey A.; Michelson, Laurie J.; Mikva, Laurie I.; Miles-LaGrange, Vicki; Miller, Debra L.; Miller, Ericka M.; Miller, James C., III; Millett, Patricia A.; Minow, Martha L.; Miscimarra, Philip A.; Mitchell, Theodore R.; Mohorovic, Joseph P.; Moniz, Ernest J.; Moody, James M., Jr.; Moore, Raymond P.; Moreno, Carlos R.; Moreno, Luis G.; Morin, Jamie M.; Morris, Bruce; Mortiz, Nancy L.; Mossman, Kenneth L.; Murthy, Vivek H.; Mushingi, Tulinabo S.; Nega, Joseph W.; Nelsen, Brent F.; Nethery, Mark T.; Nichols, Brian A.; Nix-Hines, Crystal; Nooter, William W.; Novelli, Catherine A.; Nuland, Victoria; Nunley, Troy L.; O'Connell, Beverly Reid; Ohlson, Kevin A.; O'Keefe, Michael K.; Okimoto, Daniel I.; Okun, Robert D.; O'Regan, Katherine M.; O'Rielly, Michael P.; Orr, Franklin M., Jr.; Orrick, William H., III; Owens, John B.; Parker, Linda V.; Pascual, Carlos; Patterson, Anne W.; Pearce, David D.; Pearce, Mark G.; Perez, Myrna; Perez, Thomas E.; Peterson, James D.; Phillips, Gregory A.; Phillips, John R.; Pietrzyk, J. Pius; Pillard, Cornelia T.L. /"Nina/"; Piwowar, Michael S.; Pizzella, Patrick; Polite, Kenneth A., JR.; Pope, Carol Waller; Power, Samantha; Preston, Stephen W.; Pritzker, Penny S.; Pryor, Jill A.; Pryor, William H., Jr.; Puchala, Linda A.; Pyatt, Geoffrey R.; Quiħones Alejandro, Nitza I.; Rabern, Susan J.; Radelet, Carolyn H.; Ramaswamy, Ranee; Rammer, Bruce M.; Raskin, Sarah B.; Ravel, Ann Miller; Rayes, Douglas L.; Razanowski, David; Reddick, Eunice S.; Reeves, Pamela L.; Restrepo, Luis Felipe; Ritsch, Massie; Rivkin, Charles H.; Robinson, Elizabeth M.; Robinson, Marietta S.; Rojas, Amos, Jr.; Romġn, Nelson S.; Rooney, Jo Ann; Rose, Charles P.; Rose, Frank A.; Rosenbaum, Robin S.; Rosenstengel, Nancy J.; Ross, Eleanor L.; Roth, John; Rothman, Thomas E.; Roubideaux, Yvette; Russel, Daniel R.; Russell, Catherine M.; Ryan, Evan; Rymer, Jon T.; Schaefer, Mark E.; Scheinman, Adam M.; Schiffer, Nancy J.; Schmehl, Jeffrey L.; Schmidtlein, Rhonda K. ; Schneider, Janice M.; Schultz, Eric T.; Schultz, William B.; Schwartz, Linda A.; Selfridge, Peter A.; Selig, Stefan M.; Sepulveda, Daniel A.; Sewall, Sarah; Shah, Manish S.; Shelanski, Howard A.; Shell, Jeffrey; Shelton, James H., III; Sherman, Robert A.; Shwartz, Patty; Silliman, Douglas A.; Simon, Robert M.; Smith, Christopher; Smith, Daniel B.; Smith, Edward G.; Solomon, Lafe E.; Sorokin, Leo T.; Soto, James A.; Spaulding, Suzanne E.; Srinivasan, Srikanth; Stanton, Karen C.; Starr, Gregory B.; Stein, Kara M.; Stengel, Richard; Strickland, Theodore; Suh, Rhea S.; Sullivan, Kathryn D.; Sullivan, Stephanie Sanders; Sutliff, Loretta C.; Swan, James C.; Tachau, Katerine H.; Talwani, Indira; Talwar, Puneet; Tangherlini, Daniel M.; Taranto, Richard G.; Tavenner, Marilyn B.; Techau, Kevin W.; Thomas, William L.; Thomas-Garfield, Linda; Thomas-Greenfield, Linda; Thompson, John H.; Thompson, Kathryn B.; Thornton, Michael B.; Tierney, Helen; Tobias, Constance B.; Tobin, Peter C.; Torres, Analisa; Trafford, Sherry M.; Tsunis, George J.; Tuchi, John J.; Udall, Anne J.; Unsworth, John; Valencia-Weber, Gloria; Vance-Cooks, Davita; Viso, Olga; Vollrath, Frederick; Wagar, Kirk W.B.; Wald, Patricia M.; Wassmer, Victoria M. Baecher; Watson, Derrick K.; Watt, Melvin L.; Watters, Susan P.; Weil, David; Weinstein, Kenneth R.; Wellner, Steven M.; Welsh, Kelly R.; Wesner, Alexa L.; West, Derek A.; Westphal, Joseph W.; Wheeler, Thomas E.; Whitaker, Kevin; White, Mary Jo; White, Ronnie L.; Wilkins, Robert L.; Williams, Ellen Dudley; Williams, Roy K.J.; Winfree, Gregory D.; Wolford, Elizabeth A.; Wood, Andrea R.; Wood, Robert A.; Woods, Gregory H.; Wright, Jessica G.; Wu, Portia Y.; Yang, Jenny R.; Yellen, Janet L.; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Yudin, Michael K.; Yun, Joseph Y.; Zack, Stephen N. 