Administration of Barack Obama, 2013 Joint Statement by President Barack Obama and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India on Defense Cooperation September 27, 2013 India-United States defense cooperation and engagement has increased significantly over the past decade, in step with the overall deepening of India-U.S. relations. We continue to work toward achieving the full vision of expanded defense cooperation set forth in the 2005 New Framework Agreement. In this context, India and the United States endorse the following general principles for fulfilling this vision: • The United States and India share common security interests and place each other at the same level as their closest partners. This principle will apply with respect to defense technology transfer, trade, research, co-development and co-production for defense articles and services, including the most advanced and sophisticated technology. They will work to improve licensing processes, and, where applicable, follow expedited license approval processes to facilitate this cooperation. The United States and India are also committed to protecting each other's sensitive technology and information. • The United States continues to fully support India's full membership in the four international export control regimes, which would further facilitate technology sharing. • The two sides will continue their efforts to strengthen mutual understanding of their respective procurement systems and approval processes, and to address process-related difficulties in defense trade, technology transfer, and collaboration. • The two sides look forward to the identification of specific opportunities for cooperative and collaborative projects in advanced defense technologies and systems, within the next year. Such opportunities will be pursued by both sides in accordance with their national policies and procedures, in a manner that would reflect the full potential of the relationship. NOTE: An original was not available for verification of the content of this joint statement. Categories: Joint Statements : India, Prime Minister Singh :: Defense cooperation. Names: Singh, Manmohan. Subjects: India : Prime Minister; India : Relations with U.S.; India : Security cooperation with U.S. DCPD Number: DCPD201300666. 