Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 14 (Monday, April 9, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 14 (Monday, April 9, 2001)]
[Page 560]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on the Arrest of Former President Slobodan Milosevic of the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)

April 1, 2001

    I welcome today's arrest of Slobodan Milosevic, the former President 
of Yugoslavia. His arrest represents an important step in bringing to a 
close the tragic era of his brutal dictatorship.

    Milosevic was responsible for great suffering throughout the Balkan 
region. He deserves to be tried for his crimes against the Serbian 
people. He also deserves to be tried for violations of international 
law. We cannot and must not forget the chilling images of terrified 
women and children herded onto trains, emaciated prisoners interned 
behind barbed wire, and mass graves unearthed by U.N. investigators.

    Milosevic's arrest should be a first step toward trying him for the 
crimes against humanity with which he is charged. I am confident that 
Yugoslavia will continue down the path of cooperation with the U.N. War 
Crimes Tribunal. I am encouraged by the actions that Belgrade has 
already taken to work with the Tribunal, including its assistance over 
the last several weeks in transferring two indictees to The Hague. I 
call on President Kostunica to continue this cooperation and to see that 
Milosevic is likewise brought to justice.

    The United States appreciates the hard job that Yugoslavia faces in 
building its new democracy. I assure the Yugoslav Government and people 
that they can count on the friendship of the United States as they 
continue down the path of democratic and economic reform. We look 
forward to the day that Yugoslavia is fully part of a Europe that is 
whole and free and at peace.

Note: In the statement, the President referred to President Vojislav 
Kostunica, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).