Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 40 (Monday, October 8, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 40 (Monday, October 8, 2001)]
[Page 1396]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7474--Gold Star Mother's Day, 2001

September 28, 2001

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Since its inception, this Nation has relied upon courageous young 
men and women to fight willingly for our country's ideals. Time and 
again, these men and women have secured America's liberty and 
prosperity. In defense of freedom and the values Americans hold sacred, 
many have paid the ultimate sacrifice. Over the course of the last 226 
years, more than 1 million American mothers have endured the loss of a 
son or daughter in service to our Nation.
    In the aftermath of World War I, President Woodrow Wilson first used 
the term ``Gold Star Mother.'' It signified not only the remembrance of 
a young life sacrificed in service to America, but the pride, dignity, 
and devotion of one who had first given life to that heroic young 
American. Since 1928, Gold Star Mothers have sustained themselves 
through their profound sorrow by lovingly serving others. From civic 
education and community service, to the care of veterans and those in 
need, the Gold Star Mothers promote patriotism, serve their country, and 
perpetuate the memories of their lost loved ones. Today, the Nation's 
Gold Star Mothers still stand as symbols of purpose, perseverance, and 
grace in the face of personal tragedy. Each year, the Nation remembers 
their sacrifice by honoring the Gold Star Mothers for their steadfast 
commitment to the legacy of their fallen children and their devotion to 
the United States of America.
    The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936 (49 
Stat. 1895), has designated the last Sunday in September as Gold Star 
Mother's Day and has authorized and requested the President to issue a 
proclamation in observance of this day.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, September 30, 2001, as Gold Star 
Mother's Day. I call upon all Government officials to display the United 
States flag over Government buildings on this solemn day. I also 
encourage the American people to display the flag and to hold 
appropriate meetings in their homes, places of worship, or other 
suitable places as a public expression of the sympathy and respect that 
our Nation holds for our Gold Star Mothers.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth 
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand one, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-
sixth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., October 2, 
2001]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
3. This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate 
issue.