Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 19 (Monday, May 14, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 19 (Monday, May 14, 2001)]
[Page 724]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7436--National Salvation Army Week, 2001

 May 8, 2001

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Since its founding in Great Britain in 1865, the Salvation Army has 
provided humanitarian relief and spiritual guidance to people throughout 
the world. Its members continue its compassionate tradition of helping 
wherever there is hunger, disease, destitution, and spiritual need.
    Through countless acts of service, members of the Salvation Army 
actively assist those who suffer in body and spirit. Their victories 
result in shelter for the homeless, food for the hungry, and self-
sufficiency for the disabled. In more than 100 countries, speaking more 
than 140 languages, the Salvation Army follows Christ's call to ``love 
your neighbor as yourself.''
    Members of the Salvation Army demonstrate this love in many ways. 
Perhaps the best-known services they provide involve meeting the needs 
of the homeless. However, they also offer assistance to countless other 
individuals seeking help. Those addicted to drugs or alcohol find a vast 
network of rehabilitation programs; children born into poverty discover 
camps and educational opportunities; and those who are ill receive care.
    I commend the Salvation Army officers, soldiers, and those who 
support its mission for their continued dedication to helping meet the 
physical and spiritual needs of people across the Nation. During this 
week, I encourage Americans to express their appreciation for the 
Salvation Army's good works and to follow their example of serving a 
cause greater than themselves.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 14 through May 20, 
2001, as National Salvation Army Week. I call upon all the people of the 
United States to honor the Salvation Army during that week for its 
faithful ministry in the United States for over 120 years.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of 
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand one, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-fifth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., May 10, 
2001]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 9, and it was published in the Federal Register on May 
11.