Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 41 (Monday, October 15, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 41 (Monday, October 15, 2001)]
[Pages 1447-1448]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders Reporting on Combat Action in 
Afghanistan Against Al Qaida Terrorists and Their Taliban Supporters

October 9, 2001

Dear Mr. Speaker:  (Dear Mr. President:)

    At approximately 12:30 p.m. (EDT) on October 7, 2001, on my orders, 
U.S. Armed Forces began combat action in Afghanistan against Al Qaida 
terrorists and their Taliban supporters. This military action is a part 
of our campaign against terrorism and is designed to disrupt the use of 
Afghanistan as a terrorist base of operations.
    We are responding to the brutal September 11 attacks on our 
territory, our citizens, and our way of life, and to the continuing 
threat of terrorist acts against the United States and our friends and 
allies. This follows the deployment of various combat-equipped and 
combat support forces to a number of locations in the Central and 
Pacific Command areas of operations, as I reported to the Congress on 
September 24, to prepare for the campaign to prevent and deter 
terrorism.
    I have taken these actions pursuant to my constitutional authority 
to conduct U.S. foreign relations as Commander in Chief and Chief 
Executive. It is not possible to know at this time either the duration 
of combat operations or the scope and duration of the deployment of U.S. 
Armed Forces necessary to counter the terrorist threat to the United 
States. As I have stated previously, it is likely that the American 
campaign against terrorism will be lengthy. I will direct such 
additional measures as necessary in exercise of

[[Page 1448]]

our right to self-defense and to protect U.S. citizens and interests.
    I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the 
Congress informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution and Public 
Law 107-40. Officials of my Administration and I have been communicating 
regularly with the leadership and other members of Congress, and we will 
continue to do so. I appreciate the continuing support of the Congress, 
including its enactment of Public Law 107-40, in these actions to 
protect the security of the United States of America and its citizens, 
civilian and military, here and abroad.
     Sincerely,
                                                George W. Bush

Note: Identical letters were sent to J. Dennis Hastert, Speaker of the 
House of Representatives, and Robert C. Byrd, President pro tempore of 
the Senate.