Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 52 (Monday, December 31, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 52 (Monday, December 31, 2001)]
[Pages 1838-1839]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Executive Order 13245--Providing an Order of Succession Within the 
Department of Labor

December 18, 2001

    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and 
the laws of the United States of America, including Subchapter III of 
Chapter 33 of title 5 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered 
that:
    Section 1. Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Executive 
Order, the officers named in section 2, in the order listed, shall act 
as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of 
Labor (Secretary) during any period when both the Secretary and the 
Deputy Secretary of Labor (Deputy Secretary) have died, resigned, or are 
otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of 
Secretary.
    Sec. 2. Order of Succession.

[[Page 1839]]

    (a) Solicitor of Labor;
    (b) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of Administration and 
Management;
    (c) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of Policy;
    (d) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of Congressional and 
Intergovernmental Affairs;
    (e) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Employment and 
Training Administration;
    (f) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Employment 
Standards Administration;
    (g) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Pension and 
Welfare Benefits Administration;
    (h) Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health;
    (i) Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health;
    (j) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Office of Public 
Affairs;
    (k) Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and 
Training; and
    (l) Assistant Secretary of Labor in charge of the Office of 
Disability Employment Policy.
    Sec. 3. Exceptions.
    (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 
2(a)-(l) in an acting capacity shall act as Secretary pursuant to this 
Executive Order.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Executive Order, the 
President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by Subchapter III 
of Chapter 33 of title 5 of the United States Code, to depart from this 
Executive Order in designating an acting Secretary.
    Sec. 4. Executive Order 10513 of January 19, 1954, is hereby 
revoked.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 December 18, 2001.

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., December 20, 
2001]

Note: This Executive order was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on December 28, and it was published in the Federal Register 
on December 21.