Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 52 (Monday, December 31, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 52 (Monday, December 31, 2001)]
[Pages 1837-1838]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Executive Order 13243--Providing an Order of Succession Within the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development

December 18, 2001

    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and 
the laws of the United States of America, including Subchapter III of 
Chapter 33 of title 5 of the United States Code, it is hereby ordered 
that:
    Section 1. Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Executive 
Order, the officers named in section 2, in the order listed, shall act 
as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development (Secretary) during any period when both 
the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
(Deputy Secretary) have died, resigned, or are otherwise unable to 
perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary.
    Sec. 2. Order of Succession.
    (a) General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development;
    (b) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Housing-Federal Housing Commission;
    (c) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Community, Planning and Development;
    (d) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Public and Indian Housing;
    (e) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Policy Development and Research;
    (f) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity;
    (g) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations;
    (h) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Administration; and
    (i) Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in charge 
of Public Affairs.
    Sec. 3. Exceptions.

[[Page 1838]]

    (a) No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 
2(a)-(i) in an acting capacity shall act as Secretary pursuant to this 
Executive Order.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Executive Order, the 
President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by Subchapter III 
of Chapter 33 of title 5 of the United States Code, to depart from this 
Executive Order in designating an acting Secretary.
    Sec. 4. Executive Order 11274 of March 30, 1996, is hereby revoked.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 December 18, 2001.

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., December 20, 
2001]

Note: This Executive order was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on December 28, and it was published in the Federal Register 
on December 21.