Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 15 (Monday, April 16, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 15 (Monday, April 16, 2001)]
[Page 602]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks in a Meeting With the Parents of Petty Officer Third Class 
Steven Blocher in Concord

April 11, 2001

    The President. I'm so honored that the Blocher family came to say 
hello. Obviously, when we were going to visit, we were just going to 
visit in a quiet way, a private way. Now that their son, Steven, will be 
coming home soon, I thought it would be appropriate for us to visit, and 
then visit some with the press.
    These good folks are patriots, as is their son. It's a patriotic 
family. We had other family members served our country. Steven was one 
of the 24. I know they're thrilled he's coming home. But I'm so 
appreciative of how this family and the other families were steadfast in 
their patriotism and loyalty. They raised a boy who loves his country, 
and we owe a debt of gratitude to not only the service men and women but 
to their parents, as well. So that's why I wanted to see you.
    Robert Blocher. This morning worked out even better than we had 
hoped. It's an honor to meet the President, but to meet the President 
under such happy circumstances was more than we could ask the Lord for 
in any way.
    The President. It's my honor to have you all. Thanks. We're watching 
very carefully; progress is being made, and that's very good news for 
this group of folks.

Note: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. at Concord Middle School. Petty 
Officer Third Class Blocher is one of 24 crewmembers of the U.S. Navy 
EP-3E Aries II electronic surveillance aircraft being held by the 
Government of China after the aircraft made an emergency landing on 
China's Hainan Island due to a mid-air collision with a Chinese F-8 
fighter jet over the South China Sea. A tape was not available for 
verification of the content of these remarks.