Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 10 (Monday, March 12, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 10 (Monday, March 12, 2001)]
[Page 421]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 7415--National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, 2001

 March 8, 2001

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Last year, approximately 130,000 new cases of colorectal cancer were 
diagnosed in the United States. This is a startling number. Late 
diagnosis is one reason why colorectal cancer, cancer of the colon and 
rectum, is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths for 
Americans. The disease strikes men and women with almost equal frequency 
and often progresses without symptoms. Fortunately, colorectal cancer is 
usually curable when discovered early, and early diagnosis is possible 
through regular screenings. Regular screenings are particularly 
important for persons age 50 or older. Regular screenings are also 
important for individuals considered at higher risk for the disease.
    Widespread screening for colorectal cancer could save up to 30,000 
lives a year, if all cases were found at an early stage. To raise 
awareness about the disease and to encourage regular screening, the 
Cancer Research Foundation of America, the National Colorectal Cancer 
Roundtable, and the American Digestive Health Foundation have joined 
together to encourage Americans to observe March 2001 as National 
Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of 
the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2001 as National Colorectal 
Cancer Awareness Month. By supporting continued education about this 
disease and research into treatment and prevention, Americans can help 
stop colorectal cancer and save many lives.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of 
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand one, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-fifth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:39 a.m., March 9, 
2001]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on March 
12.