Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 16 (Monday, April 23, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 16 (Monday, April 23, 2001)]
[Pages 635-636]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Prior to Discussions With Leaders of Andean Nations in Quebec, 
Canada

April 20, 2001

    I want to thank you all for coming. It is my honor to host what I 
think is a very important meeting between the members of the Andean 
coalition and my country. I wanted to visit with the leaders face to 
face. I met President Pastrana before; it's good see him again. I have 
talked on the phone to some of the leaders. I want to assure the leaders 
here that our Nation looks forward to working with you, and particularly 
when it comes to trade and commerce.
    I want to assure the leaders that Plan Colombia means more than just 
the country of Colombia--I know that's of concern to the President of 
Ecuador--that we've got plans for all the countries in the region. And 
it's not just on helping to fight drugs. It's on making sure that the 
economies remain strong, that the infrastructure for education is in 
place. It is in our Nation's interest that we cooperate together. And so 
I appreciate the leaders for being here.
    It is my honor to host this discussion. I look forward to a very 
frank and honest exchange of areas where we can cooperate and, if there 
are some problems, areas that we can work together to solve the 
problems.
    So thank you all for coming. El honor es mio.

Note: The President spoke at 3:51 p.m. at the Loews le Concorde Hotel. 
In his remarks, he referred to President Andres Pastrana of Colombia and 
President Gustavo Noboa of Ecuador. President Fernando Henrique Cardoso 
of Brazil, President Mireya Elisa Moscoso of Panama, President Valentin 
Paniagua Corazao of Peru, President Hugo Banzer of Bolivia, and 
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela also participated in the discussions.

[[Page 636]]