Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 37 (Monday, September 17, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 37 (Monday, September 17, 2001)]
[Pages 1294-1295]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Exchange With Reporters Following Discussions With Prime Minister Howard

September 10, 2001

Australia-U.S. Free Trade Agreement

    Q. Mr. President, how do you feel about a free trade agreement with 
Australia?
    The President. We've had a good discussion about it.
    Q. Progress, sir?
    The President. I think we've made some good progress; you bet. I 
appreciate the Prime Minister being here. Australia is a great friend to 
the United States, and it's an honor to welcome him and the delegation 
here.
    Q. Does the agreement still have to wait until after the FDA here?
    The President. We're making good progress. He's certainly making a 
good case.

Legislative Agenda

    Q. Mr. President, if you had to choose between education and your 
tax cut, which would you choose?
    The President. I'm going to Florida today----
    Q. Have fun.
    The President. ----to talk about education.
    I hope the Australian press is kinder to you than the American press 
is to me.

Bush-Howard Discussions

    Q. How have you found the discussions----
    Prime Minister Howard. Dennis? You heard that, Dennis?
    Q. Yes?
    Prime Minister Howard. You just listen to the man. He speaks great 
common sense. [Laughter]
    Q. Mr. Howard, how have you found the discussions so far with Mr. 
Bush?
    Prime Minister Howard. Very good. I mean, we are very close friends. 
We covered just about everything you could cover in the time. We're 
going to continue over lunch to talk about some of the regional issues. 
And it's a great opportunity to reinforce what a deep friendship it is. 
And the President and I have a great similarity of views on many issues, 
and it's a great experience to be able to exchange them with somebody 
who holds the views he does.
    Q. Have you provided an update on the----
    Prime Minister Howard. I can't hear you; I'm sorry.
    Q. Have you provided an update on the HMAS Manoora at all?
    Prime Minister Howard. Haven't discussed it.

[[Page 1295]]

U.S. Open Tennis Tournament

    Q. Mr. President, do you congratulate Lleyton Hewitt for winning the 
U.S. Open?
    The President. Yes, I do. Man, you talk about a guy who can play 
tennis. He was--clearly tennis is one of Australia's best exports.
    By the way, now that you're here, I do want to say hello to my old 
friend John Newcombe. I knew him years ago; he represents the best of 
Australia. And by the way, we get along well, because if there's any 
place that's like Texas, it's Australia--which is a high compliment, I 
want you to know.
    Q. Mr. President, do you see a role for Australia in the development 
of your----
    The President. I do. They're close allies. We'll have close 
consultation. I look forward to the Prime Minister's continuing advice. 
We have had great discussions about the Far East, and his advice is very 
valuable for our foreign policy. There's nothing like a friend who will 
tell the truth.

Note: The exchange began at 11:20 a.m. on the West Colonnade at the 
White House. In his remarks, the President referred to former Australian 
Davis Cup captain, John Newcombe. A tape was not available for 
verification of the content of this exchange.