Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 8 (Monday, February 26, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 8 (Monday, February 26, 2001)]
[Page 331]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Prior to a Meeting With the Budget Review Board and an Exchange 
With Reporters

February 23, 2001

    The President. Good morning. Welcome to the Budget Review Board. 
We've been going over the budget that I'll be submitting to the Congress 
next Tuesday night. I want to thank OMB Director Mitch Daniels for doing 
a really fine job.
    It is a budget that clearly sets out priorities. It is a budget that 
sets aside Social Security money for only--to be used only for Social 
Security. It is a budget that will substantially pay down debt, and it's 
a budget that provides meaningful, real tax relief for our citizens.
    In the budget, I prioritize education. I talked about that 
yesterday. We also prioritize the health care needs. We recognize the 
Federal Government plays a very important role in researching cures for 
disease, and therefore, our budget increases the NIH budget for 2002 by 
$2.8 billion, the largest increase in that Department's history.
    And so I'm very much looking forward for the American people to see 
and hear the budget presentation. It's a practical budget. It makes a 
lot of sense. It meets a lot of needs. And the people of this country 
are going to realize we spent a lot of time on it and will realize that 
they've got an administration that is practical, full of common sense, 
and always asks the question, how can we help the people of the country?
    Thanks.

National Economy

    Q. Is the uptick in inflation going to make it harder to get the 
economy going again?
    The President. Not with the Secretary of the Treasury at the helm.
    Thanks a lot.

Opening Day Plans

    Q. Are you going to Puerto Rico to see the Rangers?
    The President. Are you?
    Q. I'd like to.
    The President. I'm not putting out my opening day plans yet.

Note: The President spoke at 9:25 a.m. in the Roosevelt Room at the 
White House. A tape was not available for verification of the content of 
these remarks.