Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 24 (Monday, June 18, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 24 (Monday, June 18, 2001)]
[Pages 907-908]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Senate Passage of the Education Reform Legislation

June 14, 2001

    I commend the Senate for passing an education reform bill that will 
significantly improve and strengthen our public schools. The reforms in 
this bill reflect the core principles of my education agenda: 
accountability, flexibility, local control, and more choices for 
parents. I congratulate Chairman Kennedy, Ranking Member Gregg, and all 
those Senators--Democratic, Republican, and independent--whose hard work 
helped to produce this bill.
    We are close to a monumental achievement with bipartisan support. As 
a result of our efforts, we have wide agreement on the principles of 
education reform. I urge Congress to remain true to these principles 
during the upcoming conference committee.
    Many also agree on the need to provide historic levels of funding to 
help States and local schools to implement these needed reforms. 
Additional spending on education surely is justified. But the increases 
must be carefully directed and effectively spent. In the past, increased 
spending and the creation of multiple new programs have not improved 
student achievement.

[[Page 908]]

    As a Nation, we made a promise 36 years ago that disadvantaged 
children would be well educated in our country. We have not yet 
fulfilled that promise. Now we must. If we are to do so, we must change 
our approach. I challenge the House and Senate conferees to keep this 
imperative for real change in mind as they begin their deliberations. 
Empowering parents and educators closest to the children, insisting on 
real accountability for results, streamlining and placing more focus on 
proven programs, and increasing resources in an intelligent and 
reasonable manner tied to the reforms all work. Adhering to these 
approaches can provide us an historic opportunity for our children and 
our country. Let's seize it.