Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 27 (Monday, July 9, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 27 (Monday, July 9, 2001)]
[Page 1008]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks During a Visit to a White House Staff Member at Inova Fairfax 
Hospital and an Exchange With Reporters in Fairfax, Virginia

July 3, 2001

    The President. You know, when they come it reminds us of the 
responsibilities that we have in life. And Vivienne is lucky to have a 
mother and dad who will love her all the time. And she doesn't know it, 
yet, but she's learning pretty quickly. She's less than 24 hours old.
    We also have a responsibility to make sure education systems provide 
excellence for every child. We have a responsibility--and Congress needs 
to bring me a bill that will help the patients who come to these 
hospitals maintain a reasonable insurance, and a bill that doesn't help 
lawyers.
    We have a responsibility to encourage love all throughout our 
communities. That's why the faith-based initiative is so important. A 
lot of babies are born sometimes where the--some babies are born where 
people just don't love them like they should. And as a society, we've 
got to make up for that love.
    Yesterday I had the opportunity to meet with service organizations 
all across--representing people from all across the country, committed 
to finding a million mentors to love children.
    The good news for this little baby is she's got a mom and dad who 
know their responsibilities. It's a great Fourth of July gift.
    Congratulations.
    Okay.

Stem Cell Research

    Q. Mr. President, do you know when you'll actually make a decision 
on stem cell research funding?
    The President. In a while.

Note: The President spoke at approximately 9:30 a.m. In his remarks, he 
referred to Vivienne Anna Sayle, daughter of Desiree Sayle, Director of 
Correspondence for the First Lady, and attorney Stephen Sayle. A tape 
was not available for verification of the content of these remarks.