Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 9 (Monday, March 5, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 9 (Monday, March 5, 2001)]
[Pages 390-391]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
 Remarks at the Swearing-In Ceremony for Ann M. Veneman as Secretary of 
Agriculture

 March 2, 2001

     The President.  Well, it's my honor, along with the Vice President, 
to welcome Secretary Veneman and her sister, Jane, who did a fine job of 
holding the Bible, and Veneman family members. Welcome to the Oval 
Office, and thank you all for coming.
     Ann is new to the Cabinet but not to the Department she leads, nor 
the issues that her Department will face. Having served as California's 
highest agricultural official and in prominent posts here in Washington, 
she comes to the job very well prepared.
     Agriculture represents 13 percent of our Nation's economy and 
remains central to prosperity at home and competitiveness abroad. In 
many ways, it is the most crucial of all industries and, yet, the most 
easily taken for granted. American farmers are without rival in their 
ability to produce and compete. But they face every kind of challenge, 
from bad weather to closed markets.
     This administration is going to be a friend to the American farmer. 
In times of emergency, they will get the assistance they need, when they 
need it. We will support tax-deferred savings accounts, to help farm 
families guard against downturns. And to keep family farms in the 
family, we're going to get rid of the death tax.
     For many farmers, the greatest challenge today is finding markets 
for their products. Americans represent just 4 percent of the

[[Page 391]]

world's population. But our farmers have the technology and the skill to 
feed much of the world beyond.
     Ann and I will carry out this equivocal message to the world: 
Markets must be open. The United States will not tolerate favoritism and 
unfair subsidies. We want to compete, and we want our farmers to compete 
on level ground. And agriculture will no longer be traded away or 
ignored when we sit down at international negotiating tables. It will be 
a top priority of ours.
     America's farmers will have a strong advocate in the new Secretary. 
Today, the number of women-owned farms is the highest ever, and Ann 
Veneman is the first woman ever to hold this position. I'm confident 
she'll be one of the most successful leaders that this Department has 
ever had.
     Madame Secretary.

  Note: The President spoke at 1:44 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. The transcript released by the Office of the Press Secretary also 
included the remarks of Secretary Veneman. A tape was not available for 
verification of the content of these remarks.