Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 45 (Monday, November 12, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 45 (Monday, November 12, 2001)]
[Pages 1612-1613]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders on Proposed ``Armies of Compassion'' 
Legislation

November 7, 2001

Dear Mr. Leader:

    Since September 11, Americans have come together to help meet our 
national needs in this time of great crisis. They have given more than 
$1 billion to disaster relief efforts and many Americans have 
volunteered their time. Although individual generosity is evident 
everywhere, thousands of our Nation's charities, paradoxically, have 
been suffering. Donations to organizations not directly involved in 
disaster relief have

[[Page 1613]]

declined dramatically. Soup kitchens are low on food. Mentoring programs 
for needy children are low on dollars. America's charities have stood by 
America--it is now time for America to stand by her charities, as they 
suffer from the economic consequences of September 11.
    I believe the Congress must address these issues now. We must pass 
and sign into law an ``Armies of Compassion'' bill this year that 
encourages and supports charitable giving, removes unneeded barriers to 
government support for community and faith-based groups, and authorizes 
important initiatives to help those in need. The House of 
Representatives has already advanced key elements of this agenda, and 
Senators Santorum and Lieberman have made great strides on consensus 
legislation. I believe the Congress needs to come together before recess 
to consider a bill that would:
<bullet>     Provide incentives for charitable giving, such as the non-
            itemizers deduction for charitable contributions, tax-free 
            distributions from IRAs, the charitable deduction for 
            contributions of food, and Individual Development Accounts 
            (IDAs) to help low-income individuals save money;
<bullet>     Provide for equal treatment of community and faith-based 
            charities, an expedited process for grassroots groups to 
            become 501(c)(3) organizations, and a Compassion Capital 
            Fund to provide technical assistance and capacity building 
            for community and faith-based groups; and
<bullet>     Provide support to populations in need, such as the more 
            than 2 million children with a parent in prison.
    As you know, there is strong bipartisan support for these important 
measures. I hope that the Senate will find time to take up and pass 
these provisions before the Congress adjourns this year.
    Sincerely,
                                                George W. Bush

Note: Letters were sent to Thomas A. Daschle, Senate majority leader; 
and Trent Lott, Senate minority leader. An original was not available 
for verification of the content of this letter.