Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 29 (Monday, July 23, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 29 (Monday, July 23, 2001)]
[Pages 1060-1061]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Exchange With Reporters in London, United Kingdom

July 19, 2001

Bipartisan Foreign Policy

    Q. Mr. President, any comment on Senator Daschle's comments this 
morning, saying he was concerned about U.S. isolationism?
    The President. One of the things that America has prided itself on 
is a bipartisan foreign policy, and I would hope that that tradition 
continues. It's a very important tradition. I think the people of 
America appreciate the foreign policy positions we've taken, that we're 
not retreating within our borders. But I'll represent the American 
interests.
    And secondly, the world leaders have found that I'm a person who 
speaks plainly and openly about key issues. We're willing to listen, but 
I will still continue to stand for what I think is right for our country 
and the world.
    I happen to believe missile defense is important to keep the world 
more peaceful, and I believe we need to work together to reduce 
greenhouse gases. But I refuse to accept a treaty that will harm our 
country's economy.
    Q. Did Tom Daschle go too far? Did he break the tradition?
    The President. I think that's going to be up for Tom Daschle to make 
up his own mind whether he did or not. I do believe it's important to 
have a bipartisan spirit when it comes to foreign policy. I would hope 
that tradition continues.

National Missile Defense

    Q. Putin backed off a little bit on the possibility yesterday of a 
missile defense thing.
    The President. We're having a good discussion with President Putin 
on missile defenses. I was pleased to see his comments. Remember, I want 
you all to remember that he was the first world leader to indicate that 
perhaps we needed to think differently about the new threats of the 21st 
century.
    He clearly talked about theater defenses, as well as the capacity to 
develop technologies to intercept missiles on launch. I still believe he 
understands that need. I look forward to discussing that with him in 
Genoa. It's going to be part of our dialog.
    Now I'm going to go see Her Majesty. I look forward to renewing a 
friendship. I met her when she came to visit Washington, DC. My mother 
and dad kindly invited Laura to, and me, to the--a private lunch with 
her. And it's such an honor to go represent my country there at 
Buckingham Palace. And of course, we're off to see Prime Minister Blair. 
I'll be glad to visit with you after I visit Prime Minister Blair.

Previous Meeting With
Queen Elizabeth II

    Q. Is the ``black sheep'' story true, sir?
    The President. You need to ask my mother. [Laughter] Yes. Very good 
research. Well researched.

President's Visit to London

    Q. London in general. Are you enjoying your trip so far?
    The President. You know, I have. Somehow, the press got this notion 
I had never been to London. I was reading in one of our major newspapers 
the other day that this is the first time I had been to London, which is 
simply not the case. It is a spectacular city.
    I was struck by a couple of things, one, how diverse the city is and 
how clean it is. And it is a beautiful city.

Winston Churchill

    Q. Is it true that you asked specifically to go to the Cabinet War 
Rooms later on because of your interest in Churchill?
    The President. I am. Well, I've always been intrigued by Churchill. 
I think he was one of the really fascinating leaders. Last week, or, 
let's see, this week--sometimes, time flies--at some point in the recent 
past, the British Ambassador brought a bust on loan from the English 
Government to the Oval Office. So Churchill is now watching my every 
move.
    I loved Churchill's stance on principle. Sometimes in this world, it 
is important to have a world leader stand up on principle and defend 
policy based upon principle, not trying to figure out politics.
    I also loved his sense of humor. The man was blessed with a 
wonderful gift of kind of bringing light to politics. And we need that.

[[Page 1061]]

We need that a lot of times. People need to learn to laugh.
    And when they gave him the Order of the Garter, he said, ``How can I 
accept the Order of the Garter? I just got the order of the boot.'' 
[Laughter] That's right after he had been defeated.
    Q. Is that your favorite Churchill anecdote, or----
    The President. Well, I've got some, but I can't repeat in mixed 
company, if you know what I mean. He was a great leader, and he was 
blessed with a lot of talents. And I'm really looking forward to seeing 
that part of his life. You bet.
    Q. Thank you.

Visit to the British Museum

    Q. Mr. Bush, what do you think of Camden? The Bar of Camden? What do 
you think so far from what you've seen?
    The President. If you're asking about this, the reading room was 
spectacular. I mean, there's no way to describe it other than 
spectacular.
    What I found interesting was, we saw the--they have catalogued the 
list of folks who have signed in over the past to use the room. And Karl 
Marx and Lenin, Mark Twain, George W. Bush. [Laughter] From one end of 
the spectrum to the other.
    Q. Continuity?
    The President. One end of the spectrum to the other.
    Thank you all.

Note: The President spoke at 11:45 p.m. at the British Museum. In his 
remarks, he referred to President Vladimir Putin of Russia; United 
Kingdom Ambassador to the U.S. Christopher Meyer; and Queen Elizabeth II 
and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom. A reporter referred 
to a previous conversation between George W. Bush and Queen Elizabeth II 
of the United Kingdom during former President Bush's administration. A 
tape was not available for verification of the content of this exchange.