Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37 Issue 11 (Monday, March 19, 2001)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 37, Number 11 (Monday, March 19, 2001)]
[Pages 451-452]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Exchange With Reporters on Returning From the Friends of Ireland 
Luncheon on Capitol Hill

March 15, 2001

    The President. Hey, look who's here.
    The First Lady. Hi, everybody.
    The President. Barney's back. [Laughter]
    The First Lady. Barney had a really good trip.
    The President. Hey, Spot, look who's here.
    Q. Mrs. Bush, where are you coming from?
    The First Lady. I'm coming from Texas. I've been at the ranch.

Meeting With Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland

    Q. What do you expect out of your meeting with the Irish leaders?
    The President. Pardon me?
    Q. What do you expect out of your meeting with the Irish PM--Prime 
Minister?
    The President. I had a good meeting, and I'll have one tomorrow, as 
well. Looking forward to it. We'll be discussing the Good Friday 
agreement, what I can do to help--be reaffirming our trade with Ireland. 
We had a good visit with him at lunch. I'm looking forward to seeing him 
tomorrow.

[[Page 452]]

Campaign Finance Reform Legislation

    Q. Mr. President, are you prepared to send your suggestions on 
campaign finance legislation to the Hill, and----
    The President. Pretty soon.
    Q. ----what would you like to see in it?
    The President. Well, wait until I send them up there, but we'll be 
sending some principles up here pretty soon.
    Q. Not today?
    The President. Maybe today.
    Q. Mr. President, to follow up, I mean, do you still support limited 
soft money contributions?
    The President. I think we ought to get rid of labor union and 
corporate soft money. And I know we need to make sure we have--to make 
sure that shareholders and labor union members have got a say-so on how 
their money is spent.
    Assistant Press Secretary Gordon Johndroe. Thank you all very much.
    The President. Just getting warmed up. [Laughter]
    Q. Thank you, Barney.
    The President. Thank you.

Note: The exchange began at 2:22 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White 
House. In his remarks, the President referred to his dogs Spot and 
Barney. A tape was not available for verification of the content of this 
exchange.