Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36 Issue 1 (Monday, January 10, 2000)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 36, Number 1 (Monday, January 10, 2000)]
[Page 12]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting a Report on Peacekeeping

December 28, 1999

Dear Mr. Chairman:

    I am pleased to transmit herewith the 1998 Annual Report to the 
Congress on Peacekeeping. The report is required by section 4(d) of the 
United Nations Participation Act (Public Law 79-264), as amended, and 
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 
(Public Law 103-236).
    The report provides an account of how the United States used 
peacekeeping last year to promote regional stability and to advance U.S. 
interests.
    United Nations and other peacekeeping operations also helped us 
protect our interests before they were directly threatened, and ensured 
that other nations shared with us the risks and costs of maintaining 
international stability.
    We continued to promote greater discipline in decision-making 
regarding multilateral peace operations in national capitals and at the 
United Nations. This includes increased focus on key questions about the 
mandate, size, costs, duration, and exit strategy for peacekeeping 
operations before they are approved.
    I look forward to working with you to ensure that peacekeeping 
remains a viable option for dealing with international conflicts.
    Sincerely,
                                            William J. Clinton

Note: Identical letters were sent to Floyd Spence, chairman, House 
Committee on Armed Services; C.W. Bill Young, chairman, House Committee 
on Appropriations; Benjamin A. Gilman, chairman, House Committee on 
International Relations; John Warner, chairman, Senate Committee on 
Armed Services; Ted Stevens, chairman, Senate Committee on 
Appropriations; and Jesse Helms, chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign 
Relations. This letter was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on January 3, 2000.