Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35 Issue 17 (Monday, May 3, 1999)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35, Number 17 (Monday, May 3, 1999)]
[Pages 705-707]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following Discussions With NATO Secretary General Javier Solana 
and Exchange With Reporters

April 22, 1999

    The President. Good afternoon. Secretary General Solana and I have 
just had a good meeting reviewing the NATO Summit. Our alliance is 
strongly united today, in no small measure because of his leadership. He 
has made a tremendous difference as we have worked to reshape NATO to 
meet new challenges and as we have responded to Mr. Milosevic's 
repression in Kosovo.
    Serb forces there have pushed nearly 1.4 million people, three-
quarters of Kosovo's ethnic Albanians, from their homes. They have 
killed thousands, confiscated identity papers, separated parents from 
children, buried victims in mass graves, told Kosovars, ``Take a last 
look around, for you will never return to Kosovo.''
    NATO's response has been firm and persistent. Our objective is 
clear: We want all the people of Kosovo restored to their homes, free of 
the hostile presence of Mr. Milosevic's forces; protected by an 
international security force; enjoying liberty and self-government. Mr. 
Milosevic can accept this outcome, or he can watch as NATO grinds down 
his war machine and the Serb people he claims to represent face mounting 
hardship.
    Our allied forces come from many backgrounds, but they are working 
together, now, through some 9,000 air sorties. They have weakened Mr. 
Milosevic's defenses, command and control, and capacity to produce fuel 
and ammunition. We are attacking the infrastructure that supports the 
military offensive, including bridges and electrical power. 
Increasingly, we are striking at tanks, artillery, and aircraft, and in 
recent days we've begun to strike key facilities used to direct and 
incite the campaign of ethnic cleansing.
    Meanwhile, our relief efforts are working to bring order out of 
chaos and hope to those in despair. I am grateful to all the Americans, 
and indeed, to people around the world who have provided assistance.
    Now, tomorrow, the leaders of 42 nations will gather here for NATO's 
50th Anniversary Summit. This summit will enable our alliance to advance 
our mission in Kosovo and to plan for a better future--to build a Europe 
that is undivided, democratic, and at peace.
    This crisis in Kosovo has underscored the importance of the efforts 
we have been making for 5 years now to strengthen and adapt NATO for the 
new century, to enhance our capacity to address regional and ethnic 
conflicts on NATO's doorstep, to protect our citizens against terrorism 
and weapons of mass destruction, to improve security cooperation with 
partner nations across Europe, to help aspiring members improve their 
candidacies so they can join NATO.
    At our summit, we will advance these efforts, meet with partner 
nations, including Ukraine and the nations of the frontline of the 
Kosovo crisis. We will reaffirm our commitment to advancing our 
cooperation for peace and stability with Russia, for though we have 
differences on Kosovo, the world benefits when we work together.
    And we will further our efforts for deeper democracy, tolerance, 
economic development, and regional integration in Southeastern Europe, 
in the hopes that soon all the people there, including the Serbs who are 
now suffering from Mr. Milosevic's reckless tyranny, can have peace, 
prosperity, and true freedom.
    Now I'd like Secretary General Solana to say a few words. Mr. 
Secretary General.

[At this point, Secretary General Solana made brief remarks.]

    Q. Mr. President----
    Q. Mr. President----

[[Page 706]]

    Q. Mr. President, are you as committed now to now using----
    The President. One at a time, one at a time.

Ground Troops in Kosovo

    Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you could clarify the U.S. 
Government's position on Secretary General Solana's decision yesterday 
to authorize a reassessment of last year's plan to possibly introduce 
ground forces into Kosovo. Does this represent a precursor to that kind 
of decision?
    The President. Well, the answer to your last question is, no. The 
answer to your first question is, I support the Secretary General's 
decision to update the assessment. I think it is a wise and prudent 
course.
    Now, my position is still the same. I support the strategy we have 
embraced. It has the unity of the alliance, and it will be vigorously 
prosecuted. A vigorous prosecution of the air campaign, an 
intensification of economic pressures, along with our continuing 
diplomatic efforts, I believe is the correct strategy. And I believe it 
will succeed. But I support the decision he made. I think it's only 
prudent.

Security Force for Kosovo

    Q. Mr. President, there are reports of a new offer by Milosevic to 
the Russians to allow some type of security force into Kosovo. Number 
one, what do you know about this offer? And number two, will any 
security force have to have not only NATO troops but also American 
forces on the ground as well?
    The President. Well, first of all, it's hard--I cannot comment on 
the offer because I literally don't know anything other than what you 
just said--that is, I heard about it just a few minutes before you did 
or after you did or at the same time, so I cannot comment on the 
details. If there is an offer for a genuine security force, that's the 
first time that Mr. Milosevic has ever done that, and that represents, I 
suppose, some step forward.
    My interest here is in something that will work that will have the 
support of the parties. My belief is that the members of our alliance 
want us all to be able to go in there and that the Kosovar Albanians 
want to feel protected and will expect us to be there.
    I have always said from the very beginning that I would hope that 
there would be Russian troops there, Ukrainian troops there, troops from 
Slavic countries, from Orthodox Christian countries, because I would not 
entertain going into Kosovo unless our mandate was to protect all the 
people there, including the Serb minority.
    There will be--after all the stuff the Albanians have been through 
and all the people who have been killed and the families that have been 
wrecked and the homes that have been burned and the records that have 
been destroyed, there will be people who will, inevitably, be looking 
for some outlet for vengeance there.
    So I can't comment on this except to say if it is true, then it is 
at least the first acknowledgement by Mr. Milosevic that there will have 
to be a security force there. But for the security force to work, it 
will have to have the confidence of the people who live there. And it 
will have to operate in a way that protects all the people there, 
including the Serb minority.

Serbian Targets

    Q. Secretary Solana and President Clinton, is NATO targeting 
Slobodan Milosevic directly? They destroyed one of his residences.
    Secretary General Solana. The objective of this military campaign, 
as you know it very well, is very clear, has five points. We want to 
stop the killing. We want to have all the troops withdrawn from Serbia, 
from Kosovo. We want an international force, military force, to 
guarantee the security of Kosovo and to guarantee, fourth, the return of 
refugees. And for us, this is the most important commitment. The 
refugees that have been expelled brutally from that country, they have 
to return. And fifth, we want a political agreement in the terms that 
the President has mentioned.
    Q. Yes, but I'm talking about the attack against one of the 
residences of Milosevic.
    The President. The answer to your--yes, I understand your question. 
The answer to your question is, no, but we are targeting command and 
control facilities. And I think it is important.

[[Page 707]]

    You know, when the weather permits, we go after the tanks and we go 
after the soldiers. But the tanks and the soldiers are there because 
people who believe in ethnic cleansing ordered them to go there. And in 
this conflict, it would be wrong and unfair not to target the command 
and control operations as well. And that's why the Socialist Party 
headquarters in Belgrade, for example, was targeted.

President Milosevic

    Q. Mr. President, can the Kosovar refugees ever go home, with an 
international security force, without Mr. Milosevic giving his okay?
    The President. Well, that's a hypothetical question, but, of course, 
there are scenarios under which that could occur.
    Q. Mr. President, can you imagine an outcome in this war, sir, that 
would leave Milosevic in power?
    The President. Well, we set forth certain conditions, and if he 
meets those conditions and the Serbian people are willing to continue 
him in power, then I could imagine such an outcome. Now, that begs the 
question of what the War Crimes Tribunal will do or what other action 
might be taken.
    But we--NATO has never taken a position on that issue. Our concern 
has been for the Kosovar people, for the welfare of the refugees, for 
the integrity of their life and how they are treated.
    Secretary General Solana. I would like to add to what the President 
has said, it would really concern us in the future of the people who 
have been suffering--being expelled from their houses, from their 
country--to see them returned. That we are going to see, and that's our 
main concern and the concern that we have now to continue.
    The President. Thank you very much.

Note: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White 
House. In his remarks, he referred to President Slobodan Milosevic of 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). The 
transcript released by the Office of the Press Secretary also included 
the remarks of Secretary General Javier Solana. This item was not 
received in time for publication in the appropriate issue.