Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35 Issue 35 (Monday, September 6, 1999)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35, Number 35 (Monday, September 6, 1999)]
[Pages 1681-1682]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Radio Remarks on Earthquake Relief for Turkey

August 31, 1999

    The recent earthquake in Turkey is one of the worst natural 
disasters of the century. Tens of thousands of people are either 
confirmed dead or still missing.
    On behalf of all Americans, Hillary and I offer our deepest 
condolences to the loved ones of those who have lost their lives. Our 
thoughts and prayers are with all those affected by this tragedy.
    Turkey is our longtime ally. The Turkish people are our friends. 
Today they urgently need assistance. Many are severely injured. Hundreds 
of thousands are camping outdoors. There is a serious risk of disease 
spreading. We must help the victims rebuild their lives.
    Working with Turkey's Government and others, American military and 
civilian personnel, including teams from Fairfax County, Virginia, and 
Dade County, Florida, helped with the rescue efforts. Now we're helping 
provide shelter, water, sanitation, and medical services. I'm grateful 
to all those participating.
    Here at home, Americans are helping, too, including religious 
leaders of many faiths, who've united to call for prayer and 
humanitarian action. I encourage my fellow citizens to give generously 
to charitable organizations supporting the relief efforts. For 
information, you can call our toll-free number in the 
U.S., that's 1-800-USAID-RELIEF--1-800-USAID-
RELIEF or look on the Internet at www.whitehouse.gov.

[[Page 1682]]

Note: The President's remarks were recorded at approximately 10:45 a.m. 
on August 28 at the Edgartown Elementary School in Martha's Vineyard, 
MA, for later broadcast. The transcript was released by the Office of 
the Press Secretary on August 31. These remarks were also made available 
on the White House Press Office Radio Actuality Line.