Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35 Issue 13 (Monday, April 5, 1999)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35, Number 13 (Monday, April 5, 1999)]
[Pages 532-533]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks on Departure for Camp David, Maryland, and an Exchange With 
Reporters

March 28, 1999

NATO Airstrikes

    The President. Good afternoon. All Americans can be very proud of 
the skill and bravery of the American servicemen involved in the rescue 
operation yesterday in Kosovo. Indeed, we can be proud of all of our men 
and women in uniform who are involved in the NATO mission.
    From the outset, I have said to the American people that this 
military operation entails real risks. But the continued brutality and 
repression of the Serb forces further underscores the need for NATO to 
persevere. I strongly support Secretary General Solana's decision 
yesterday to move to a new phase in our planned air campaign, with a 
broader range of targets including air defenses, military and security 
targets, and forces in the field.
    In the last 24 hours, I have been in close contact with key NATO 
allies, including Prime Minister Blair, President Chirac, Chancellor 
Schroeder, and Prime Minister D'Alema. All of them share our 
determination to respond strongly to Mr. Milosevic's continuing campaign 
of inhumane and violence against the Kosovar Albanian people. That is 
what we intend to do.
    Thank you very much.
    Q. Has the bombing made things worse, sir?
    Q. Sir, is the allied bombing driving the atrocities, sir?
    The President. Absolutely not.

Note: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White 
House. In his remarks, the President referred to NATO Secretary General 
Javier Solana; Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom; 
President Jacques Chirac of France; Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of 
Germany; Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema of Italy;

[[Page 533]]

and President Slobodan Milosevic of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
(Serbia and Montenegro).