Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35 Issue 45 (Monday, November 15, 1999)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 35, Number 45 (Monday, November 15, 1999)]
[Pages 2329-2330]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on Funding To Assist Colombia in Fighting Drug Production and 
Trafficking

November 10, 1999

    Fourteen months ago, the inauguration of President Andres Pastrana 
brought to Colombia a new spirit of hope--for deeper democracy, for 
broader prosperity, for an end to that country's long civil conflict. 
President Pastrana has put forth a bold agenda--Plan Colombia--to 
address his nation's toughest

[[Page 2330]]

challenges. But the obstacles to a better future for Colombia are 
substantial. In particular, continued drug production and trafficking 
puts Colombia's progress in peril. It also fuels addiction and violence 
in other countries, including ours.
    Therefore, I am pleased that the current foreign operations bill, 
which I hope the Congress will approve, provides our full $78 million 
request for programs to help President Pastrana fight the drug trade in 
Colombia. It provides a total of $305 million for global counter-drug 
efforts, which could allow additional spending focused on Colombia. My 
overall FY 2000 budget request funds other efforts to assist in this 
fight--such as asset forfeiture, military assistance and training--
totaling more than $70 million. Earlier this fall, we approved a further 
$58 million in drawdown funds for counter-drug efforts in Colombia. And 
we anticipate providing additional help, including DEA assistance, 
alternative development, and potential additional drawdown authority.
    While we will continue to move forward to aid Plan Colombia with 
currently available funds, more funding is needed if we are to gain the 
upper hand in the fight against drugs and help Colombia on the path to 
stable democracy. I have asked my senior advisers to work with Congress, 
following completion of the current budget process, to enhance our 
bilateral assistance programs--for counter-drug efforts and for other 
programs to help President Pastrana deepen democracy and promote 
prosperity. We will also continue to encourage our allies and the 
international institutions to assist Colombia in implementing President 
Pastrana's strategy.
    Strengthening stability and democracy in Colombia, and fighting the 
drug trade there, is the right thing to do, and it is very much in 
America's own national interest. So, with President Pastrana and with 
our Congress, we must and we will intensify this vital work.