Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 13 (Monday, April 7, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 13 (Monday, April 7, 2008)]
[Pages 476-477]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8233--National Tartan Day, 2008

 April 4, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Americans of Scottish descent have made enduring contributions to 
our Nation with their hard work, faith, and values. On National Tartan 
Day, we celebrate the spirit and character of Scottish Americans and 
recognize their many contributions to our culture and our way of life.
    Scotland and the United States have long shared ties of family and 
friendship, and many of our country's most cherished customs and ideals 
first grew to maturity on Scotland's soil. The Declaration of Arbroath, 
the Scottish Declaration of Independence signed in 1320, embodied the 
Scots' strong dedication to liberty, and the Scots brought that 
tradition of freedom with them to the New World. Sons and daughters of 
many Scottish clans were among the first immigrants to settle in 
America, and their determination and optimism helped build our Nation's 
character. Several of our Founding Fathers were of Scottish descent, as 
have been many Presidents and Justices of the United States Supreme 
Court. Many Scottish Americans, such as Andrew Carnegie, were great 
philanthropists, founding and supporting numerous scientific, 
educational, and civic institutions. From the evocative sounds of the 
bagpipes to the great sport of golf, the Scots have also left an 
indelible mark on American culture.
    National Tartan Day is an opportunity to celebrate all Americans who 
claim Scottish ancestry, and we are especially grateful for the service 
in our Armed Forces of Scottish Americans who have answered the call to 
protect our Nation.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 6, 2008, as 
National Tartan Day. I call upon all Americans to observe this day by 
celebrating the continued friendship between the people of

[[Page 477]]

Scotland and the United States and by recognizing the contributions of 
Scottish Americans to our Nation.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of 
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:34 a.m., April 8, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
April 9.