Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 5 (Monday, February 11, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 5 (Monday, February 11, 2008)]
[Pages 158-159]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the International Convention Against 
Doping in Sport

February 6, 2008

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
ratification, I transmit herewith the International Convention Against 
Doping in Sport, adopted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific, 
and Cultural Organization on October 19, 2005.
    The United States supported the development of the Convention as a 
means to ensure equitable and effective application and promotion of 
anti-doping controls in international competition. The Convention will 
help to advance international cooperation on and promotion of 
international doping control efforts, and will help to protect the 
integrity and spirit of sport by supporting efforts to ensure a fair and 
doping-free environment for athletes.
    The International Olympic Movement has been supportive of the 
promotion and adoption of this Convention by the international 
community. Ratification by the United States will demonstrate the United 
States' longstanding commitment to the development of international 
anti-doping controls and its commitment to apply and facilitate the 
application of appropriate anti-doping controls during international 
competitions held in the United States. Ratification will also ensure 
that the United States will continue to remain eligible to host 
international competitions. The Convention does not cover U.S. sports 
leagues.
    I recommend that the Senate give prompt and favorable consideration 
to the Convention and give its advice and consent to ratification.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 February 6, 2008.

Note: This message was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
February 7.

[[Page 159]]