Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 42 (Monday, October 27, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 42 (Monday, October 27, 2008)]
[Pages 1378-1379]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Letter to Congressional Leaders Certifying the Establishment of a 
Registration and Monitoring System for Defense Articles Provided to Iraq

October 23, 2008

Dear _____ :

    Pursuant to section 1228(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008, Public Law 110-181 (NDAA), I hereby certify 
that a registration and monitoring system for defense articles provided 
to the Government of Iraq or any other group, organization, citizen, or 
resident of Iraq, meeting the requirements set forth in subsection 
1228(c) of the NDAA, has been established.

    Specifically, I certify that the registration and monitoring system 
herein referenced includes:

    1. the registration of the serial numbers of all small arms to be 
provided to the Government of Iraq or to other groups, organizations, 
citizens, or residents of Iraq;
    2. a program of end-use monitoring of all lethal defense articles 
provided to such entities or individuals; and
    3. the maintenance of a detailed record of the origin, shipping, and 
distribution of all defense articles transferred under the Iraq Security 
Forces Fund or any other security

[[Page 1379]]

assistance program to such entities or individuals.
     Sincerely,
                                                George W. Bush

Note: Identical letters were sent to Carl Levin, chairman, and John 
McCain, ranking member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; Joseph R. 
Biden, Jr., chairman, and Richard G. Lugar, ranking member, Senate 
Committee on Foreign Relations; Christopher J. Dodd, chairman, and 
Richard C. Shelby, ranking member, Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs; Ike Skelton, chairman, and Duncan Hunter, ranking 
member, House Committee on Armed Services; and Howard L. Berman, 
chairman, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, ranking member, House Committee on 
Foreign Affairs.