Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 17 (Monday, May 5, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 17 (Monday, May 5, 2008)]
[Pages 620-621]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8248--Jewish American Heritage Month, 2008

 April 29, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Jewish American Heritage Month is an opportunity to celebrate the 
history, culture, and faith of Jewish Americans and their contributions 
to our Nation.
    The story of the Jewish people in America is the story of America 
itself. When the first

[[Page 621]]

Jewish settlers arrived on our shores hundreds of years ago, they saw a 
land of promise and liberty. With hard work and determination, these 
individuals helped build our country and strengthen our values. Their 
commitment to religious freedom and their belief in democracy have 
enriched our society and helped make our country a beacon of hope for 
all.

    Many Jewish Americans have served in our military with valor and 
distinction in times of war and peace. We pay special tribute to all 
those who stepped forward when our country needed them most. These 
American heroes confronted grave dangers to protect our Nation.

    During Jewish American Heritage Month and throughout the year, we 
honor Jewish Americans who played an integral role in shaping the 
cultural fabric of our Nation. Their spirit and talents have helped 
America succeed and prosper, and their efforts continue to remind us of 
the many blessings of this great country.

    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2008 as Jewish 
American Heritage Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month 
with appropriate programs and activities to honor Jewish Americans 
across the country.

    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth 
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.

                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 11:26 a.m., April 30, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 1.