Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 18 (Monday, May 12, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 18 (Monday, May 12, 2008)]
[Page 659]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8252--Military Spouse Day, 2008

May 5, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Military spouses embody the courage, nobility of duty, and love of 
country that inspire every American. On Military Spouse Day, we pay 
tribute to the husbands and wives who support their spouses in America's 
Armed Forces during times of war and peace.
    The legacy of military spouses began when colonial Americans were 
fighting for independence. Martha Washington boosted the morale of her 
husband's troops by visiting battlefields and tending to the wounded. 
Since then, members of our Armed Forces have served our Nation 
accompanied by the steadfast love and support of their spouses and 
families.
    While our men and women in uniform are protecting our country's 
founding ideals of liberty, democracy, and justice, their spouses live 
with uncommon challenges, endure sleepless nights, and spend long 
periods raising children alone. Many military spouses are also committed 
volunteers, serving other military families and local communities. Our 
Nation benefits from the sacrifices of our military families, and we are 
inspired by their courage, strength, and leadership.
    On Military Spouse Day and throughout the year, we honor the 
commitment spouses have made to freedom's cause. To learn about ways to 
support our troops and their spouses and families, I encourage all 
Americans to visit www.americasupportsyou.mil.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 9, 2008, as Military 
Spouse Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this 
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities and by expressing their 
gratitude to the husbands and wives of those serving in the United 
States Armed Forces.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:13 a.m., May 7, 2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 8.