Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 16 (Monday, April 28, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 16 (Monday, April 28, 2008)]
[Page 581]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8245--Loyalty Day, 2008

 April 22, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Americans believe that every man, woman, and child has unalienable 
rights, dignity, and matchless value. Advancing these ideals was the 
honorable vision of our Founders and the mission that helped shape this 
great country. On Loyalty Day, we celebrate the legacy of freedom and 
the shared ideals that bind us together.
    Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen 
demonstrate their love of country by stepping forward when America needs 
them most. By putting our country's security before their own, the men 
and women of the Armed Forces have strengthened our Nation and brought 
hope to millions around the world. All Americans are grateful to the 
members of the military and their families for their service, sacrifice, 
and dedication, and we are proud of their accomplishments.
    Through their good works, our Nation's volunteers bear witness to 
their steadfast love for America, as exemplified in their commitment to 
service and good citizenship. Loyalty to this country brings with it a 
commitment to aid our family, friends, and fellow citizens all across 
this broad and welcoming land. These volunteers demonstrate their 
gratitude for the blessings of freedom by helping build a more hopeful 
future for our children and grandchildren. All Americans can put their 
loyalty into practice by learning more about the history of our country, 
flying the American flag, and contributing to our communities.
    Two hundred and thirty-two years after the founding of our country, 
we remain committed to advancing freedom and renewing the values that 
sustain our liberty. Through the spirit and determination of our people, 
our Nation will prosper and our liberty will be secure.
    The Congress, by Public Law 85-529, as amended, has designated May 1 
of each year as ``Loyalty Day.'' This Loyalty Day, and throughout the 
year, I ask all Americans to join me in reaffirming our allegiance to 
our Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 2008, as Loyalty Day. I call upon all 
people of the United States to join in support of this national 
observance and to display the flag of the United States on Loyalty Day 
as a symbol of pride in our Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second 
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:11 a.m., April 24, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on April 23, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
April 25.