Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 43 (Monday, November 3, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 43 (Monday, November 3, 2008)]
[Pages 1393-1394]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8315--National Adoption Month, 2008

 October 31, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During National Adoption Month, we recognize the compassion of 
adoptive and foster families as we seek to raise awareness of the need 
for every child in America to have a safe, loving, and permanent home.
    Adopting a child is a great joy and also a great responsibility. 
Parents are a child's first teachers, and adoptive families can help 
children learn character and values, the importance of giving back to 
their community and country, and the courage to realize their potential. 
On November 15, caring parents across our Nation will celebrate National 
Adoption Day by finalizing their adoptions

[[Page 1394]]

and bringing home children in need of a hopeful life.

    My Administration is committed to helping young people find the 
love, stability, and support that a family can provide. We have joined 
with community and faith-based organizations to raise public awareness 
of foster children awaiting adoption. With the help of the Congress, we 
are assisting families in overcoming the financial barriers to adopting 
children through programs such as the Adoption Incentives Program. In 
addition, the Collaboration to AdoptUsKids project, which can be found 
at adoptuskids.org, provides guidance and resources for parents 
exploring adoption.

    During National Adoption Month, we honor adoptive and foster parents 
who have shown America the depth and kindness of the human heart. Their 
love and dedication inspire the next generation of Americans to achieve 
their dreams and demonstrate the true spirit of our Nation.

     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2008 as 
National Adoption Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this month 
with appropriate programs and activities to honor adoptive families and 
to participate in efforts to find permanent homes for waiting children.

     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first 
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
third.

                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 4, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
November 5.