Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 14 (Monday, April 14, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 14 (Monday, April 14, 2008)]
[Page 502]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8234--National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day, 2008

 April 8, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    America is blessed to have brave men and women willing to step 
forward to defend our freedoms and keep us safe. The members of the 
United States Armed Forces have proudly held fast against determined and 
ruthless enemies, protected our citizens from harm, and freed millions 
from oppression. On National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day, we 
pay tribute to the courageous and selfless individuals who were taken 
captive while serving the cause of peace and securing liberty across the 
globe.
    America's former prisoners of war set an example of vision, valor, 
and unshakeable love of country that inspires our citizens. Through 
unspeakable conditions, they upheld their oath to defend America with 
honor and dignity. Their extraordinary spirit, patriotism, and resolve 
helped defeat tyranny and build democratic and just societies, enabling 
decent men and women around the world to live in freedom.
    Our Nation is extremely proud of our former prisoners of war, and we 
owe them and their families a debt we can never fully repay. On National 
Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day, we honor our country's heroes 
who were prisoners of war, recognize their sacrifice, and express our 
deepest gratitude to those who helped write a more hopeful chapter in 
our history.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 9, 2008, as National 
Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day. I call upon the people of the 
United States to join me in honoring the service and sacrifices of all 
of America's former prisoners of war. I call upon Federal, State, and 
local government officials and private organizations to observe this day 
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of 
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:58 a.m., April 10, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on April 
11.