Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 20 (Monday, May 26, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 20 (Monday, May 26, 2008)]
[Pages 732-733]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8258--A Day of Solidarity With the Cuban People, 2008

 May 20, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, and freedom of worship are 
among the liberties that Americans cherish. Our Nation fully supports 
the brave people who work to secure these liberties in the countries 
where they are denied. And on this Day of Solidarity with the Cuban 
People, we focus our attention on the men and women working to secure 
freedom, democracy, and human rights for the citizens of Cuba.
    For half a century, the Cuban people have suffered under oppressive 
dictatorship. Under the rule of Fidel and Raul Castro, Cubans have seen 
their political freedoms denied, their economy reduced to shambles, and 
their families torn apart. The Cuban people deserve better--and the 
American people stand with them as they work to achieve it.
    The United States is rallying the free world to the cause of Cuban 
liberty. We continue to shine a bright light on the Castro regime's 
abuses--and America calls on the Government of Cuba to immediately and 
unconditionally release all prisoners of conscience.
    We keep these prisoners, their families, and all Cubans in our 
prayers. Especially on this Day of Solidarity, we ask the Almighty to 
comfort and strengthen those who suffer under the Castro dictatorship--
and to hasten the day when Cuba's suffering comes to an end.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 21, 2008, as A Day of 
Solidarity with the Cuban People to recognize those who are suffering in 
Cuba, especially Cuba's prisoners of conscience. I call upon the 
citizens of the United States to mark this observance with appropriate 
ceremonies and activities that demonstrate

[[Page 733]]

America's resolute support for those living under the Castro regime.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day 
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., May 22, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 23. 
The Office of the Press Secretary also released a Spanish language 
version of this proclamation.