Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 28 (Monday, July 21, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 28 (Monday, July 21, 2008)]
[Pages 985-986]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8273--FBI Day, 2008

 July 14, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    For 100 years, the committed men and women of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation have worked diligently to deliver justice and keep 
Americans safe. On FBI Day, we recognize the Bureau's many 
accomplishments and pay tribute to all who have served in its ranks with 
valor and dedication.
    The FBI traces its origins to 1908, when under the leadership of 
President Theodore Roosevelt and Attorney General Charles Bonaparte, a 
force of Special Agents was created, later to be called the Bureau of 
Investigation. As a Federal agency with the power to investigate crimes 
across State lines and enforce Federal law, the FBI has protected our 
country against threats from abroad and caught dangerous criminals like 
``Baby Face'' Nelson, John Dillinger, Ted Kaczynski, and Ramzi Yousef. 
Today, the FBI is charged with guarding our Nation from terrorist 
attacks, combating public corruption and organized crime, resisting 
cyber attacks, and opposing other high-technology crimes. The FBI also 
has a deep commitment to civil rights, helping protect the values we 
cherish.
    With an abiding respect for the Constitution, the men and women of 
the FBI bring strength, impartiality, and devotion to their pursuit of 
justice. They continue to uphold their motto of ``Fidelity, Bravery, 
Integrity.'' On FBI Day, we especially remember the fallen agents who 
paid the ultimate price in serving our country and keeping our Nation 
safe.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 26, 2008, as

[[Page 986]]

FBI Day. I call upon all Americans to recognize the 100th anniversary of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day 
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
third.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 12:03 p.m., July 16, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on July 
17.