Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 2 (Monday, January 21, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 2 (Monday, January 21, 2008)]
[Pages 83-84]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following a Meeting With Special Envoy for Sudan Richard S. 
Williamson

January 17, 2008

    The President. I've just had an extensive visit with Madam Secretary 
and members of my national security team, Rich Williamson, who is the 
Presidential Envoy--Special Envoy to Sudan.
    We talked about our common commitment and the commitment of this 
Government to help the suffering of citizens in Sudan who, you know, 
suffer deprivation, rape. My administration called this a genocide. Once 
you label it genocide, you obviously have to do something about it.
    Our discussion centered upon our mutual desire to develop a strategy 
that will help the United Nations become more effective. The United 
Nations considers the Darfur issue a central issue, and it's on its 
agenda. And we agree. The United States can help what has been a 
process, frankly, that has unfolded a little too slow for our liking. 
And we can help.
    And secondly, we want to make sure that the peace agreement 
negotiated through this administration by Ambassador Danforth, between 
the north and south, holds. So Rich is going to report back to me 
quickly. You know, I plan to accelerate our efforts.
    You know, America is probably wondering why, why do you care? And 
one reason we care about the suffering in Sudan is because we care about 
the human condition all across

[[Page 84]]

the face of the Earth. And we fully understand that when people suffer, 
it is in our interest to help. And we also understand that when people 
suffer, it makes it more likely that some may turn to the ideology of 
those who use murder as a weapon. So it's in our national security 
interest and it's in our--in the interest of our conscience to confront 
this, what we have called a genocide. And I want to thank you for taking 
this on.
    Ambassador Williamson. Thank you, Mr. President.
    The President. It's a big deal; you've got my full support.
    Ambassador Williamson. I appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
    The President. Yes, sir.

Note: The President spoke at 10:56 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White 
House. In his remarks, he referred to former U.S. Ambassador to the 
United Nations John C. Danforth.