Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 39 (Monday, October 6, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 39 (Monday, October 6, 2008)]
[Pages 1273-1274]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting a Report and Agreement on the 
Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels

September 26, 2008

To the Senate of the United States:

    With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to 
accession, I transmit herewith the Agreement on the Conservation of 
Albatrosses and Petrels, with Annexes. In addition, I transmit for the 
information of the Senate the report of the Department of State, which 
includes a detailed analysis of the Agreement.
    The Agreement, done at Canberra on June 19, 2001, and that entered 
into force on February 1, 2004, was adopted pursuant to the Convention 
on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (the 
``Convention''), done at Bonn on June 23, 1979. Although the United 
States is not a Party to the Convention, the United States may 
nonetheless become a Party to the Agreement. The Agreement's objective 
is to achieve and maintain a favorable conservation status for 
albatrosses and petrels.
    I believe the Agreement to be fully in the U.S. interest. Its 
provisions advance the U.S. goals of protecting albatrosses and petrels. 
As the Department of State's analysis explains, the Agreement is not 
self-executing and thus does not by itself give rise to domestically 
enforceable Federal law. Implementing legislation would be required, 
which will be submitted separately to the Congress for its 
consideration.
    I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration 
to the Agreement and give its advice and consent to accession.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 September 26, 2008.

Note: This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.

[[Page 1274]]