Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 29 (Monday, July 28, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 29 (Monday, July 28, 2008)]
[Pages 1017-1018]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8275--60th Anniversary of the Integration of the United 
States Armed Forces

 July 23, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    The United States is founded upon the belief that every person has 
unalienable rights and matchless value. Throughout our Nation's history, 
brave patriots have made great sacrifices to protect this ideal and to 
advance the cause of freedom around the world. On the 60th anniversary 
of the integration of the United States Armed Forces, we pay tribute to 
all our service members and veterans, and we underscore our Nation's 
commitment to equality.
    On July 26, 1948, President Harry Truman signed Executive Order 
9981, declaring ``that

[[Page 1018]]

there shall be equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in 
the armed services without regard to race, color, religion or national 
origin.'' Today, members of our Armed Forces come from many different 
backgrounds and cultures and are answering the call to service with 
bravery, decency, and resolve.

    Our Nation has long drawn strength from the diversity of its 
citizens. Groups such as the Buffalo Soldiers, the 442nd Regimental 
Combat Team, the Tuskegee Airmen, and the ``Borinqueneers'' risked their 
lives while proudly wearing the uniform of the United States. By 
performing their missions with integrity and honor, they highlighted the 
power of liberty, helped open the door of opportunity, and earned the 
respect and admiration of a grateful Nation.
    On this anniversary, we celebrate the legacy of those who refused to 
allow adversity to diminish their spirit or extinguish their drive to 
help America live up to its promise of equality for all people. We also 
commemorate our veterans and service members whose noble and selfless 
actions have inspired generations of men and women to follow in their 
footsteps and made our country a more hopeful place.

     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 26, 2008, as the 
60th Anniversary of the Integration of the United States Armed Forces 
and urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, 
ceremonies, and activities.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third 
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
third.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., July 25, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on July 
28.