Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 36 (Monday, September 15, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 36 (Monday, September 15, 2008)]
[Pages 1201-1202]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8288--National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve 
Week, 2008

 September 12, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Throughout history, America has counted on brave individuals willing 
to put on the uniform to protect our land and defend our way of life. 
This week we honor and recognize the many contributions members of our 
National Guard and Reserve make to our Nation, and we thank the civilian 
employers who support these individuals as they answer the call of duty.
    The men and women of the National Guard and Reserve have 
demonstrated the highest form of citizenship, and their service is vital 
to the security of our country and the peace of the world. As the early 
patriots who claimed our Nation's liberty did, today's Guard and Reserve 
are fighting a new and unprecedented war and pledging their lives and 
honor to defend our freedom. As many of those early patriots did, 
members of today's Guard and Reserve lead civilian lives but stand ready 
to wear our Nation's uniform

[[Page 1202]]

when liberty is threatened. The families of the National Guard and 
Reserve serve our Nation by proudly standing behind these brave men and 
women, and America appreciates their sacrifice as well.
    In all they do, the National Guard and Reserve and their families 
represent the best of the American spirit.
    Our Nation also depends on the commitment of the civilian employers 
of the members of the National Guard and Reserve. In offices and 
factories across America, organizations do without the talents of many 
hard-working people who have been called upon to protect our country. 
Our Nation's employers provide time off, pay, healthcare benefits, and 
job security because they care about and love their country. These 
businesses have put patriotism above profit, and they deserve the 
gratitude of all Americans.
    During National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week, a 
grateful country pays tribute to the men and women of the National Guard 
and Reserve, and we express our gratitude to the employers who support 
them and help enable them to serve.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 14 through 
September 20, 2008, as National Employer Support of the Guard and 
Reserve Week. I encourage all Americans to join me in expressing our 
thanks to members of our National Guard and Reserve and their civilian 
employers for their patriotism and sacrifices on behalf of our Nation. I 
also call upon State and local officials, private organizations, 
businesses, and all military commanders to observe this week with 
appropriate ceremonies and activities.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of 
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
third.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 
16, 2008]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
September 17.