Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 20 (Monday, May 26, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 20 (Monday, May 26, 2008)]
[Page 747]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8261--National Hurricane Preparedness Week, 2008

 May 23, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    National Hurricane Preparedness Week highlights the vital importance 
of being prepared when natural disasters strike.
    Tropical storms can cause destruction over entire regions and claim 
the lives of many of our citizens. We can help reduce vulnerability in 
our communities by encouraging all citizens to be prepared and to work 
together. Maintaining emergency supply kits and family communication 
plans, and knowing what to do in an emergency can help save lives. For 
more information on hurricane preparedness, Americans can visit 
ready.gov and fema.gov to find checklists and other valuable resources 
to help them get prepared.
    My Administration continues to support efforts to strengthen how 
Americans prepare for and respond to disasters. The National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration works to predict and track storms so that 
citizens are more aware of potential storms. The Department of Homeland 
Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has improved 
communication between Federal, State, local government, and the private 
sector in order to help citizens stay informed and receive the help they 
need. By working together, we can better prepare for, respond to, and 
recover from hurricanes and reduce the harm to our citizens and our 
communities.
    As hurricane season approaches, we also express our gratitude to the 
volunteers and first responders who help their fellow citizens in their 
time of need.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 25 through May 
31, 2008, as National Hurricane Preparedness Week. I call upon 
government agencies, private organizations, schools, and the media to 
share information about hurricane preparedness. I also urge all 
Americans living in vulnerable coastal areas to take appropriate 
measures and precautions to protect themselves, their homes, and their 
communities against the effects of hurricanes.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third 
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:50 a.m., May 28, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on May 
29. The Office of the Press Secretary also released a Spanish language 
version of this proclamation.