Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 2 (Monday, January 21, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 2 (Monday, January 21, 2008)]
[Pages 70-71]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks During a Tour of an Alternative Fuel Sources Exhibit in Abu 
Dhabi

January 14, 2008

    The President. It's amazing, isn't it? This country has gotten its 
wealth from the ground and is now reinvesting in alternative forms of 
energy, sometimes joint venturing with U.S. institutions, like MIT.

[At this point, the exhibit tour continued, and no transcript was 
provided. The remarks continued as follows.]

    The President. It's a modern society that is using its wealth not 
only to educate its people but to stay on the leading edge of 
technological change.
    And Your Highness, it's been an amazing experience for me. And I 
don't think most Americans understand the UAE. And I don't think most 
Americans understand that your education systems are modern and that 
you're thinking about the future in constructive ways. I appreciate the 
chance to learn about you.

[The exhibit tour continued, and no transcript was provided. The remarks 
concluded as follows.]

    The President. My hope is my visit shines a spotlight on the Middle 
East, the opportunities to work constructively with our friends and 
allies, and shows people the truth about what life is like here in the 
UAE. This is a remarkable place. The architecture is beautiful, but the 
can-do spirit is amazing.
    And we just heard a briefing about how they're going to construct a 
city based entirely upon renewable energy. It is--it will be an 
opportunity to see what works, what won't work, and an opportunity to 
share that technology with others.
    And I appreciate the commitment to conservation and to the 
environment that the leadership has shown here. This has been a very 
interesting experience. I can't thank you enough for your hospitality.

[[Page 71]]

Note: The President spoke at 9:37 a.m. at the Emirates Palace Hotel. In 
his remarks, he referred to Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohammed 
bin Zayed Al Nahyan.