Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 10 (Monday, March 17, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 10 (Monday, March 17, 2008)]
[Pages 353-354]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8225--Women's History Month, 2008

 March 10, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During Women's History Month, we celebrate the courage, foresight, 
and resolve of women who have strengthened our democracy.
    America has been transformed by strong women whose contributions 
shaped the history of our country. Amelia Earhart became the first woman 
to fly solo across the Atlantic, and she inspired generations of women 
to follow their dreams. Physicist Chien-Shiung Wu helped advance our 
knowledge and understanding of the world through her achievements in 
atomic research. Harriet Tubman fought racial injustice and opened doors 
for more Americans to participate fully in our society.
    Today, women are continuing this legacy of leadership as 
entrepreneurs, doctors, teachers, scientists, lawyers, artists, and 
public officials. They are also providing guidance

[[Page 354]]

and care to their loved ones and strengthening America's families and 
communities. We also remember the women of the United States Armed 
Forces who are serving our country with honor and distinction across the 
world.
    This month, we honor the extraordinary women of our Nation's past 
and recognize the countless women who are demonstrating leadership in 
every aspect of American life.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2008 as Women's 
History Month. I call upon all our citizens to observe this month with 
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities that honor the history, 
accomplishments, and contributions of American women.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of 
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., March 12, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on March 
13.