Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 22 (Monday, June 9, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 22 (Monday, June 9, 2008)]
[Pages 770-771]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8264--Black Music Month, 2008

 May 30, 2008

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    America's diverse musical heritage exemplifies the creativity and 
optimism of our Nation. During Black Music Month, we celebrate the 
extraordinary talents and creativity of African-American singers, 
musicians, and composers whose achievements have enriched our culture 
and enhanced our lives.
    For generations, African-American artists have created music that 
communicates across racial boundaries and expresses both joy and sorrow. 
When facing the cruelty of slavery and injustice, African Americans 
lifted spirituals to the heavens, bringing comfort to troubled souls. 
These timeless declarations of hope and faith evolved into the more 
modern genres of gospel, blues, ragtime, and jazz, and they are given 
voice in the musical genius of Scott Joplin, Marian Anderson, Eubie 
Blake, and Mahalia Jackson. During the Civil Rights era, African-
American musicians such as Duke Ellington, Muddy Waters, and Ruth Brown 
conveyed the struggles of their communities while bringing people of all 
backgrounds together. Today, this music continues to inspire America's 
citizens and advance its creative spirit.
    Throughout the course of American history, black musicians have used 
their great talents to share the richness of the African-American 
experience and to develop a uniquely American style of music enjoyed 
throughout the world. This month, we honor the pioneers of African-
American music and today's contemporary artists who have enriched the 
lives of people everywhere.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2008 as Black Music 
Month. I encourage all Americans to learn more about the history of 
black music and to enjoy the great contributions of African-American 
singers, musicians, and composers.

[[Page 771]]

    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day 
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand eight, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
second.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:59 a.m., June 3, 
2008]

Note: This proclamation was released by the Office of the Press 
Secretary on May 31, and it was published in the Federal Register on 
June 4.