Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44 Issue 29 (Monday, July 28, 2008)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 44, Number 29 (Monday, July 28, 2008)]
[Page 1019]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Message to the Senate Transmitting the North Atlantic Treaty Protocols 
on the Accession of Albania and Croatia

July 23, 2008

To the Senate of the United States:

    I transmit herewith, for Senate advice and consent to ratification, 
Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of the 
Republic of Albania and the Republic of Croatia. These Protocols were 
adopted at Brussels on July 9, 2008, and signed that day on behalf of 
the United States and the other Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty. 
Also transmitted for the information of the Senate is the report of the 
Department of State, which includes an overview of the Protocols.
    NATO enlargement remains an historic success in advancing freedom, 
stability, and democracy in the Euro-Atlantic area. Albania and Croatia 
serve as two more examples of countries motivated by the prospect of 
NATO membership to advance significant and difficult political, 
economic, and military reforms. Their efforts and success demonstrate to 
other countries in the Balkans and beyond that NATO's door remains open 
to nations willing to shoulder the responsibilities of membership. I am 
pleased that, with the advice and consent of the Senate, these new 
democracies can soon join us as members of this great Alliance.
    I ask the Senate to join me in advancing the cause of freedom and 
strengthening NATO by providing its prompt advice and consent to 
ratification of these Protocols of Accession. My Administration stands 
ready to assist you in any way we can in your deliberations.
                                                George W. Bush
 The White House,
 July 23, 2008.

Note: This message was released by the Office of the Press Secretary on 
July 24.