Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 21 (Monday, May 29, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 21 (Monday, May 29, 2006)]
[Pages 1014-1015]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8024--National Homeownership Month, 2006

May 24, 2006

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Owning a home is an important part of the American dream. During 
National Homeownership Month, we raise awareness of homeownership and 
encourage more Americans to consider the benefits of owning their own 
home.
    Nearly 70 percent of Americans enjoy the satisfaction of owning 
their own home, and my Administration continues to promote an ownership 
society where the promise of

[[Page 1015]]

America reaches all our citizens. The American Dream Downpayment Act of 
2003 is helping thousands of low to moderate income and minority 
families with downpayment and closing costs, which represent the 
greatest barrier to homeownership. Since 2002, when I announced our goal 
to help 5.5 million minorities become homeowners by the end of this 
decade, the rate of minority homeownership has climbed above 50 percent, 
and more than 2.5 million minority families have become new homeowners. 
My Administration will continue to provide counseling and assistance for 
new homebuyers and expand homeownership opportunities for all Americans.
    During National Homeownership Month and throughout the year, we 
applaud the men and women who work to achieve the dream of 
homeownership, and we are grateful for those who provide counseling, 
lending, real estate, construction, and other services to these 
individuals. The hard work, financial discipline, and personal 
responsibility of our country's homeowners help transform neighborhoods 
throughout our Nation and reflect the best qualities of America.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of 
the United States of America, do hereby proclaim June 2006 as National 
Homeownership Month. I call upon the people of the United States to join 
me in building a more hopeful society and recognizing the importance of 
expanding the ownership of homes across our great Nation.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth 
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
thirtieth.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., May 26, 2006]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on May 30.