Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 21 (Monday, May 29, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 21 (Monday, May 29, 2006)]
[Pages 1019-1020]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8025--Black Music Month, 2006

May 25, 2006

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    African-American musicians have added to the rich culture of our 
country and of countries around the world. During Black Music Month, we 
recognize the African-American artists who have enhanced our lives and 
created some of our Nation's most treasured art forms.
    Throughout history, African-American artists have produced music 
with the power to change hearts and shape our national conscience. From 
gospel to blues, from jazz to rock and roll, the songs of America's 
black musicians have defined our times and enriched our culture. 
Performers such as Count Basie and Dizzy Gillespie and vocalists such as 
Lizzie Miles and gospel singer Mahalia Jackson have made their mark as 
great American musicians, strengthening our Nation's diversity and 
lifting the human spirit.
    In 2005, Americans witnessed the power of music to help bring our 
country together. Following the devastation of the Gulf Coast by 
Hurricane Katrina, the musicians of that great region sought to preserve 
their unique musical style and culture and share it with the rest of the 
Nation. The soulful music of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast remains one

[[Page 1020]]

of our national treasures, a symbol of creativity and hope.
    Black Music Month recognizes some of the brightest lights of 
American creativity and honors the African-American men and women whose 
art entertains and inspires us. The incredible talents of black 
musicians continue to speak to every heart, reflecting the beauty and 
pride of our great Nation.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2006 as Black Music 
Month. I encourage all Americans to learn more about the history of 
black music and to enjoy the great contributions of African-American 
musicians.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth 
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and 
thirtieth.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., May 30, 2006]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on May 
31.