Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 37 (Monday, September 18, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 37 (Monday, September 18, 2006)]
[Page 1595]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8048--National Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
Week, 2006

September 8, 2006

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Education is the cornerstone of a prosperous and hopeful Nation. By 
providing a quality education, Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCUs) help students achieve their dreams and realize the 
promise of America. During National Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities Week, we recognize the significant contributions of HBCUs 
and underscore our commitment to helping these distinguished 
institutions in the pursuit of educational excellence.
    Our Nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities are places 
of higher learning and achievement that prepare new generations of 
Americans to become responsible leaders in their communities and around 
the world. HBCUs enable students to gain the skills necessary to compete 
for the jobs of the 21st century.
    My Administration is dedicated to ensuring the continued success of 
HBCUs and securing the constitutional guarantees of liberty and equality 
to all Americans. The President's Board of Advisors on Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities has worked to help these institutions 
benefit from Federal programs, obtain private-sector support for their 
endowments, and build partnerships to strengthen faculty development and 
cooperative research. In addition, the HBCU Capital Financing Program 
provides HBCUs with access to funds for the repair, renovation, and 
construction of educational resources and facilities.
    During National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week, 
we celebrate the enduring importance of HBCUs, and resolve to continue 
to support their critical mission.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 10 through 
September 16, 2006, as National Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities Week. I call upon public officials, educators, librarians, 
and all the people of the United States to observe this week with 
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities in recognition of the 
vital contributions of HBCUs.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of 
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 12, 
2006]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
September 13. This item was not received in time for publication in the 
appropriate issue.