Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 44 (Monday, November 6, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 44 (Monday, November 6, 2006)]
[Pages 1958-1959]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8081--World Freedom Day, 2006

 November 2, 2006

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    On November 9, 1989, the Berlin Wall was torn down by the desire of 
a people to be free. On World Freedom Day, we commemorate this historic 
event and reflect on liberty's power to change lives and raise 
societies.
    After decades of oppression, the fall of the Berlin Wall brought the 
light of liberty to the people of East Berlin, and the events that 
followed set the course for a new era of freedom in Germany and in much 
of Central and Eastern Europe. Today, we again face an ideological 
struggle with the enemies of freedom, democracy, and moderation. In this 
struggle, America will continue to stand with

[[Page 1959]]

those who seek to build societies where people live in freedom and at 
peace with each other and the world.
    The collapse of the Berlin Wall demonstrated that when liberty 
flourishes, nations become more tolerant, hopeful, and secure. On World 
Freedom Day, we celebrate the power of freedom and democracy. We are 
also reminded that free countries have the responsibility to work 
together to protect the fundamental rights of all people and help others 
realize the blessings of liberty.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 9, 2006, as 
World Freedom Day. I call upon the people of the United States to 
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities, reaffirming 
our dedication to freedom and democracy.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of 
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 6, 
2006]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
November 7.