Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 44 (Monday, November 6, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 44 (Monday, November 6, 2006)]
[Pages 1932-1933]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8078--National Family Caregivers Month, 2006

October 30, 2006

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Our country is blessed to have millions of compassionate citizens 
who bring love and support to family members and friends who are 
chronically ill, elderly, or disabled. During National Family Caregivers 
Month, we recognize these kind individuals who give of their hearts, 
resources, and energy to assist loved ones in need.
    Family caregivers exemplify the true spirit of compassion by 
providing support to their loved ones and assisting with their everyday 
activities and special needs. These selfless people must often make 
great personal sacrifices to maintain the care and support their family 
and friends require. Their assistance provides those who may be ill, 
aging, or disabled an opportunity to stay in familiar surroundings and 
remain a part of their community.
    My Administration is committed to supporting family caregivers and 
their vital role in our Nation's communities. The National Family 
Caregiver Support Program continues to provide information, counseling, 
and services and encourages cooperation among agencies and other 
providers that work with caregivers. These efforts assist caregivers and 
help ensure that all Americans receive the care they need.
    As we observe National Family Caregivers Month, we honor family 
caregivers who take time out of their lives to improve the lives of 
family and friends. Their efforts demonstrate the best of the American 
spirit.
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and 
laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2006 as National 
Family Caregivers Month. I encourage all Americans to honor the selfless 
service of caregivers who support their loved ones in need.
    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day 
of October, in the

[[Page 1933]]

year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the Independence of the United 
States of America the two hundred and thirty-first.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., November 1, 
2006]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on 
November 2.