Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 41 (Monday, October 16, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 41 (Monday, October 16, 2006)]
[Pages 1814-1815]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8069--White Cane Safety Day, 2006

October 12, 2006

By the President of the United States

of America

A Proclamation

    Our Nation believes in the promise of all our citizens, and we must 
work to ensure that the opportunities of America are more accessible to 
every person. Many Americans who are blind or visually impaired use 
white canes to enable them to enjoy greater mobility, engage in 
productive work, and participate fully in all aspects of life. On White 
Cane Safety Day, we celebrate the many achievements of Americans who are 
blind or visually impaired, and we recognize the white cane as an 
important symbol of their determination and independence.
    My Administration remains committed to removing barriers that 
confront Americans with disabilities. Since we launched the New Freedom 
Initiative 5 years ago, we have worked to improve access to community 
life, expand educational opportunities, strengthen training and 
employment services, and promote the development of technology for 
people with disabilities. We are building on the progress of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act and working to make America a place 
where all citizens have the opportunity to realize their full potential.
    The Congress, by joint resolution (Public Law 88-628) approved on 
October 6, 1964, as amended, has designated October 15 of each year as 
``White Cane Safety Day.''
    Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States of 
America, do hereby proclaim October 15, 2006, as White Cane Safety Day. 
I call upon public officials, business leaders, educators, librarians, 
and all the people of the United States to join as we work to ensure 
that the benefits and privileges of life in our great Nation are 
available to Americans who are blind or visually impaired, and to 
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.

[[Page 1815]]

    In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of 
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:51 a.m., October 16, 
2006]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
October 17.