Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 10 (Monday, March 13, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 10 (Monday, March 13, 2006)]
[Pages 402-404]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Joint Statement by President George W. Bush and President Pervez 
Musharraf of Pakistan: United States-Pakistan Strategic Partnership

March 4, 2006

    President Bush and President Musharraf have affirmed the long-term, 
strategic partnership between their two countries. In 2004, the United 
States acknowledged its aspirations for closer bilateral ties with 
Pakistan by designating Pakistan as a Major Non-NATO Ally. The U.S.-
Pakistan strategic partnership is based on the shared interests of the 
United States and Pakistan in building stable and sustainable democracy 
and in promoting peace and security, stability, prosperity, and 
democracy in South Asia and across the globe.
    The two leaders are determined to strengthen the foundation for a 
strong, stable, and enduring relationship. This will require a 
significant expansion of U.S.-Pakistan bilateral economic ties, 
including mutual trade and investment. As a key step in this direction 
the United States and Pakistan are making meaningful progress toward 
concluding a Bilateral Investment Treaty.
    Both leaders commit to working together with Afghanistan to make 
Pakistan and Afghanistan a land bridge linking the economic potentials 
of South Asia and Central Asia.
    The American people feel profound sympathy for the victims of the 
tragic earthquake that struck on October 8, 2005. President Bush 
reaffirmed the United States' determination to stand by the Pakistani 
people as they recover and rebuild.
    President Bush and President Musharraf reaffirm their condemnation 
of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Following the 
September 11 attacks, the United States and Pakistan joined 
international efforts to fight the scourge of terrorism. President Bush 
is grateful for President Musharraf's strong and vital support in the 
war on terror. The two leaders underscored the need for a comprehensive 
strategy for addressing the threat of terrorism and extremism. President 
Bush and President Musharraf will continue to work together to address 
political injustice, poverty, corruption, ignorance, and hopelessness. 
They resolve to maintain their close counterterrorism cooperation and to 
increase their efforts to reduce the threat of terrorism regionally and 
internationally.
    The two leaders recognize the need to promote tolerance, respect and 
mutual understanding, and inter-faith harmony to strengthen appreciation 
of the values and norms common to the world's religions and cultures. 
The two leaders acknowledge with appreciation the various international 
initiatives in this regard including President Musharraf's concept of 
Enlightened Moderation. The two leaders agreed that acts that disturb 
inter-faith harmony should be avoided.

[[Page 403]]

    President Bush and President Musharraf support the peace process and 
composite dialogue between Pakistan and India for improvement of 
relations and resolution of disputes and building a better future in 
South Asia.
    Both leaders share concern about the threat to global stability 
posed by the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) and the 
threat of terrorist groups acquiring such weapons. President Bush and 
President Musharraf commit to play leading roles in international 
efforts to prevent the proliferation of WMD, their delivery systems, and 
related technology and expertise.

Strategic Dialogue

    President Bush and President Musharraf are launching a Strategic 
Dialogue under the Strategic Partnership. The Dialogue will be co-
chaired by the U.S. Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs and 
Pakistan's Foreign Secretary. They will meet regularly to review issues 
of mutual interest.
    In implementation of the strategic partnership, President Bush and 
President Musharraf commit both countries to undertake the following 
steps in the areas of economic growth and prosperity, energy, peace and 
security, social sector development, science and technology, democracy, 
and non-proliferation:

Economic Growth and Prosperity

 <bullet>    Establish and implement strong financial sector controls 
            that can defend against illicit finance.
 <bullet>    Facilitate Pakistan's economic growth through increased 
            trade and investment links with the United States and within 
            the region and the global economy, including through an 
            enhanced economic dialogue encompassing bilateral 
            cooperation for Pakistan's economic development, regional 
            economic cooperation, and the global economy.
 <bullet>    The United States will provide financial support for the 
            establishment of a Center for Entrepreneurship in Pakistan 
            under the Broader Middle East and North Africa (BMENA) 
            Initiative. The Center will promote entrepreneurial training 
            and skills development to young women and men to launch 
            business initiatives that would generate employment 
            opportunities.

Energy Cooperation

 <bullet>    Hold a High-Level Energy Meeting to inaugurate an energy 
            working group, which will explore ways to meet Pakistan's 
            growing energy needs and strengthen its energy security.
 <bullet>    Work together to develop public and private collaboration 
            on a broad range of energy sources.

Peace and Security

 <bullet>    Build a robust defense relationship that advances shared 
            security goals, promotes regional stability, and contributes 
            to international security.
 <bullet>    Continue robust U.S. security assistance to meet Pakistan's 
            legitimate defense needs and bolster its capabilities in the 
            war on terror.
 <bullet>    Deepen bilateral collaboration in the fields of defense 
            training, joint exercises, defense procurement, technology 
            transfers, and international peacekeeping.
 <bullet>    Decide to increase the frequency of defense policy 
            discussions to strengthen collaboration in the identified 
            sectors.
 <bullet>    Work together to ensure the maintenance of peace, security, 
            and stability in the South Asia region and beyond.
 <bullet>    Cooperate closely in international institutions, including 
            bodies of the United Nations, on matters of mutual concern.

Social Sector Development

 <bullet>    Continue U.S. support in the health sector through 
            collaborative projects and programs.
 <bullet>    Reinforce Pakistan's efforts to reform and expand access to 
            its public education through continuing U.S. cooperation.
 <bullet>    Encourage educational programs and greater interaction and 
            linkages between the research and academic institutions of 
            the two countries.
 <bullet>    Promote exchange of students and scholars, fellowship 
            programs, and

[[Page 404]]

            strengthened research collaboration, including through 
            institutional support for higher education and training.
 <bullet>    Establish a wide-ranging High Level Dialogue on Education 
            to enhance and strengthen cooperation in the education 
            sector.

Science and Technology

 <bullet>    Build capacity in Pakistan and work toward increased 
            cooperation in science, technology, and engineering.
 <bullet>    Improve the quality, relevance, or capacity of education 
            and research at Pakistan's institutions of higher education 
            in the field of science and technology.
 <bullet>    Establish Pakistan-U.S. Joint Committee on Science and 
            Technology to develop collaborative activities and 
            relationships between the scientific and technological 
            communities and institutions of both countries.
 <bullet>    Enhance institutional capacity of Pakistan in the area of 
            environment through exchange of experts and developing 
            linkages and collaborative projects with relevant U.S. 
            institutions.

Democracy

 <bullet>    Support Pakistan as it develops strong and transparent 
            democratic institutions and conducts free and fair elections 
            to ensure sustainable democracy.

Non-proliferation

 <bullet>    Support Pakistan's non-proliferation efforts and strengthen 
            its capabilities, by:
         Supporting Pakistan's measures for implementation of its new 
            export control law, including adoption of enforcement 
            regulations and establishment of a new export licensing 
            body; and
         Providing U.S. assistance through the Department of Energy's 
            Second Line of Defense Program (Megaports) and the 
            Department of Homeland Security's Container Security 
            Initiative.

Presidential Visit

 <bullet>    President Bush thanked President Musharraf and the people 
            of Pakistan for the generous reception and warm hospitality 
            accorded to him, Mrs. Laura Bush, and members of the 
            Presidential delegation during their stay in Pakistan.

Note: An original was not available for verification of the content of 
this joint statement.