Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 41 (Monday, October 16, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 41 (Monday, October 16, 2006)]
[Pages 1799-1800]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8066--General Pulaski Memorial Day, 2006

 October 11, 2006

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    On General Pulaski Memorial Day, we remember Casimir Pulaski, a 
Polish-born hero of the American Revolution who fought and

[[Page 1800]]

died for the freedom and independence our country enjoys today.
    General Casimir Pulaski entered into a campaign against tyranny in 
Poland in 1768, bravely fighting for the freedom of his native land. 
This patriotic spirit and thirst for freedom remained with Pulaski 
throughout his life and influenced his success in the American 
Revolutionary War. After meeting Benjamin Franklin in Paris, Pulaski 
traveled to America to join forces with General George Washington and 
assist in the fight for American independence. He was quickly 
commissioned as a Brigadier General and demonstrated such skill on the 
battlefield that he became known as the ``Father of the American 
Cavalry.'' In 1779, General Pulaski was mortally wounded at the siege of 
Savannah. By giving his life for our country, General Pulaski inspired 
many Americans and helped ensure a future of freedom for our citizens.
    Through his service and dedication to liberty, General Pulaski 
demonstrated the strong will and patriotism that made our freedom 
possible, and the ties between the United States and Poland are 
strengthened by these common values. On General Pulaski Memorial Day, we 
honor the courage and sacrifice of this great hero of the American 
Revolution, recognize the many contributions of Polish Americans to our 
country, and celebrate the lasting friendship between our two great 
nations.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 11, 2006, as 
General Pulaski Memorial Day. I encourage Americans to commemorate this 
occasion with appropriate programs and activities honoring General 
Casimir Pulaski and all those who defend our freedom.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day 
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:46 a.m., October 12, 
2006]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on October 
13.