Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 34 (Monday, August 28, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 34 (Monday, August 28, 2006)]
[Pages 1506-1507]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Memorandum on the Future of America's National Parks

August 24, 2006

Memorandum for the Secretary of the Interior

Subject: The Future of America's National Parks

    In honoring its 90th anniversary, I have called on the National Park 
Service, and every American, to continue the cooperation necessary for 
our vibrant national parks to endure for the next 100 years and beyond.
    Over the past 5 years, the National Park Service has built a strong 
foundation for the future, with 6,000 park improvements completed or 
underway. We should further enhance our national parks during the decade 
leading up to the 2016 centennial celebration.
    Therefore, I direct you to establish specific performance goals for 
our national parks that, when achieved, will help prepare them for 
another century of conservation, preservation, and enjoyment. These 
goals should integrate the assessments of the past 5 years used in 
monitoring natural resources and improving the condition of park 
facilities. You are to identify signature projects and programs that are 
consistent with these goals and that continue the National Park Service 
legacy of leveraging philanthropic, partnership, and government 
investments for the benefit of national parks and their visitors.
    You are directed to consult with the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental 
Quality as appropriate in implementing this memorandum. I encourage you 
to invite and receive suggestions from those who desire to preserve the 
scenic, cultural, historical, geological, and recreational values of our 
national parks.
    You are to report the results of the implementation of this 
memorandum to me by May 31, 2007.
                                                George W. Bush

Note: This memorandum was released by the Office of the Press Secretary 
on August 25. An original was not available for verification of the 
content of this memorandum.

[[Page 1507]]