Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 37 (Monday, September 18, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 37 (Monday, September 18, 2006)]
[Pages 1605-1606]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8049--National Hispanic Heritage Month, 2006

 September 14, 2006

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    Americans are a diverse people, yet we are bound by common 
principles that teach us what it means to be American citizens. During 
National Hispanic Heritage Month, we recognize the many contributions of 
Hispanic Americans to our country.
    Through hard work, faith in God, and a deep love of family, Hispanic 
Americans have pursued their dreams and contributed to the strength and 
vitality of our Nation. They have enriched the American experience and 
excelled in business, law, politics, education, community service, the 
arts, science, and many other fields. Hispanic entrepreneurs are also 
helping build a better, more hopeful future for all by creating jobs 
across our country. The number of Hispanic-owned businesses is growing 
at three times the national rate, and increasing numbers of Hispanic 
Americans own their own homes. We continue to benefit from a rich 
Hispanic culture and we are a stronger country because of the talent and 
creativity of the many Hispanic Americans who have shaped our society.
    Throughout our history, Hispanic Americans have also shown their 
devotion to our country in their military service. Citizens of Hispanic 
descent have fought in every war since our founding and have taken their

[[Page 1606]]

rightful place as heroes in our Nation's history. Today, Americans of 
Hispanic descent are serving in our Armed Forces with courage and honor, 
and their efforts are helping make America more secure and bringing 
freedom to people around the world.

    As we celebrate National Hispanic Heritage Month, we applaud the 
accomplishments of Hispanic Americans and recognize the contributions 
they make to our great land. To honor the achievements of Hispanic 
Americans, the Congress, by Public Law 100-402, as amended, has 
authorized and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation 
designating September 15 through October 15 as ``National Hispanic 
Heritage Month.''

     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 15 
through October 15, 2006, as National Hispanic Heritage Month. I call 
upon public officials, educators, librarians, and all the people of the 
United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies, 
activities, and programs.

     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day 
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand six, and of the 
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-
first.

                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 8:45 a.m., September 
18, 2006]

Note: This proclamation will be published in the Federal Register on 
September 19. The Office of the Press Secretary also released a Spanish 
language version of this proclamation.