Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 31 (Monday, August 7, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 31 (Monday, August 7, 2006)]
[Pages 1429-1430]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following a Tour of the Lake County Emergency Management Agency 
in Mentor, Ohio

August 2, 2006

    I have just been briefed by the emergency management teams of Lake 
County and the other counties affected by the recent flooding. Law 
enforcement was there; firefighters were there; and our FEMA 
representative was there at the briefing.
    A couple of impressions: One, the local response was really good. 
The interoperability between various jurisdictions was superb. And as a 
result, a lot of people's lives were saved. And I want to congratulate 
you, Sheriff, and congratulate Larry for your good work in helping 
people.
    Secondly, FEMA has been on the ground here, and I signed a major 
disaster declaration for this part of the country, which means this: 
that individuals will be helped. Individuals will be helped with rental 
assistance; individuals will be helped with temporary housing; 
individuals will be helped with grants to help rebuild their homes; and 
small businesses will be helped with low-interest loans. In other words, 
the first wave of help from the Federal Government as a result of these 
disasters is now available for people whose lives were affected by the 
flooding.
    There are still assessments going on for further Federal help and 
Federal assistance, and when those assessments are made, the proper help 
will be granted. For those people who are wondering about the Federal 
help, there's toll-free numbers. You can call the emergency center, 
they'll give you the toll-free numbers if you've been a citizen affected 
by these recent floods.
    Again, I want to congratulate you all for a job well done. I had the 
honor of talking to dispatchers, hardworking people that are on the 
phone all the time helping people. And now, once the lives have been 
saved, with the exception of one soul, that it's now time to help the 
people rebuild their lives. There's a lot of people concerned and a lot 
of people working here, and the Federal Government will do its part with 
the local authorities.
    Thank you all very much. Appreciate you.

[[Page 1430]]

Note: The President spoke at 5:47 p.m. at the Lake County Emergency 
Operations and Communications Center. In his remarks, he referred to 
Jesse Munoz, Federal Coordinating Officer, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency; Sheriff Daniel A. Dunlap of Lake County, OH; and Larry D. 
Greene, director, Lake County Emergency Management Agency.