Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 6 (Monday, February 13, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 6 (Monday, February 13, 2006)]
[Page 191]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks Following a Visit to the School of Science and Engineering in 
Dallas, Texas

February 3, 2006

    First of all, it's such an honor to be here at this school. Thank 
you all for coming. Every good school requires a couple of things: one, 
a good principal--thank you for doing that--and great teachers and good 
support. That's a super tie; thanks for being here.
    Laura and I are here because we believe it's important to spread AP 
classes all around the country. This is a unique place. The students 
here are really impressive people. They have decided to focus on the 
sciences and math and engineering. And this school helps lift their 
sights--and one way it does so is to encourage them to take AP.
    We want more AP students because we want more engineers and 
scientists that are able to compete with other students around the 
world. And so one thing the Government can do is help train 70,000 
teachers all around the country so that they can teach students Advanced 
Placement.
    We also want to encourage scientists and chemists and physicists to 
come into the classrooms all around the country to excite students about 
the possibilities of science and engineering. And the reason why is, in 
order for America to be a competitive nation in the years to come, we 
have got to have a workforce that is strong in engineering and science 
and physics. You know, some would hope that the competition around the 
world will go away--it's not going to. And so we have a choice to make: 
Do we want to retreat, become protectionist, or do we want to seize the 
moment and shape our future?
    And so the American Competitiveness Initiative I've outlined says 
that America will continue to lead; we'll shape our future; and we'll 
make sure our kids are well-versed in science and math and engineering.
    Again, I want to thank you all for letting us come to your school. 
It's a fantastic school. It really does brighten my hopes about the 
future of the country to see you all and see your enthusiasm for the 
subjects and to listen to your very articulate explanations of the 
different courses you're studying. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.

Note: The President spoke at 2:13 p.m. at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview 
Magnet Center. In his remarks, he referred to Richard White, principal, 
the School of Science and Engineering. A tape was not available for 
verification of the content of these remarks. This item was not received 
in time for publication in the appropriate issue.