Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 21 (Monday, May 29, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 21 (Monday, May 29, 2006)]
[Pages 1017-1018]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Statement on the Department of Justice's Handling of Representative 
William J. Jefferson's Materials

May 25, 2006

    Over the last several days, the House of Representatives and the 
Department of Justice have attempted to resolve a dispute over the 
execution of a search warrant on the Capitol Hill office of Congressman 
William Jefferson, who is under criminal investigation.
    The Department of Justice's search was part of an important 
investigation of alleged public corruption. At the same time, the 
bipartisan leadership of the House of Representatives believes this 
search violated the Constitutional principle of separation of powers and 
the Speech or Debate Clause of the Constitution. They note these 
principles must be adhered to, even in the pursuit of a legitimate 
criminal investigation.
    I recognize these are deeply held views. Our Government has not 
faced such a dilemma in more than two centuries. Yet after

[[Page 1018]]

days of discussions, it is clear these differences will require more 
time to be worked out.
    So today I am directing the Department of Justice to seal all the 
materials recovered from Congressman Jefferson's office for the next 45 
days and not to allow access to anyone involved in the investigation. I 
am also ordering the sealed materials to remain under the custody of the 
Solicitor General--who heads a separate office within the Justice 
Department and is not involved in the investigation.
    This period will provide both parties more time to resolve the 
issues in a way that ensures that materials relevant to the ongoing 
criminal investigation are made available to prosecutors in a manner 
that respects the interests of a coequal branch of Government. The 
Justice Department and the House of Representatives should continue 
their discussions and resolve this matter as quickly as possible.
    Let me be clear: Investigating and prosecuting crime is a crucial 
executive responsibility that I take seriously. Those who violate the 
law--including a Member of Congress--should and will be held to account. 
This investigation will go forward, and justice will be served.