Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 23 (Monday, June 12, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 23 (Monday, June 12, 2006)]
[Pages 1077-1078]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Proclamation 8028--Caribbean-American Heritage Month, 2006

 June 5, 2006

 By the President of the United States

 of America

 A Proclamation

    During Caribbean-American Heritage Month, we celebrate the great 
contributions of Caribbean Americans to the fabric of our Nation, and we 
pay tribute to the common culture and bonds of friendship that unite the 
United States and the Caribbean countries.
    Our Nation has thrived as a country of immigrants, and we are more 
vibrant and hopeful because of the talent, faith, and values of 
Caribbean Americans. For centuries, Caribbean Americans have enriched 
our society and added to the strength of America. They have been leaders 
in government, sports, entertainment, the arts, and many other fields.
    During the month of June, we also honor the friendship between the 
United States and the Caribbean countries. We are united by our common 
values and shared history, and I join all Americans in celebrating the 
rich Caribbean heritage and the many ways in which Caribbean Americans 
have helped shape this Nation.
     Now, Therefore, I, George W. Bush, President of the United States 
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2006 as 
Caribbean-American Heritage Month. I encourage all Americans to learn 
more about the history of Caribbean Americans and their contributions to 
our Nation.
     In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of 
June, in the year

[[Page 1078]]

of our Lord two thousand six, and of the Independence of the United 
States of America the two hundred and thirtieth.
                                                George W. Bush

 [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 9:20 a.m., June 7, 
2006]

Note: This proclamation was published in the Federal Register on June 8.