Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42 Issue 16 (Monday, April 24, 2006)


[Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents Volume 42, Number 16 (Monday, April 24, 2006)]
[Page 745]
[Online from the Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov]

<R04>
Remarks at a Luncheon Honoring President Hu Jintao of China

April 20, 2006

    Mr. President, Madam Liu, Laura and I are honored to welcome you to 
the--and your delegation to the White House. It's a pleasure to have you 
here, along with our other distinguished guests.
    China is home to an ancient civilization, and it is helping to shape 
the modern world. In a single generation, China's economy has moved from 
isolation and stagnation to engagement and expansion. As China has 
grown, our two peoples have come to know one another better.
    Thirty-five years ago this month, the Chinese Government welcomed 
the United States ping-pong team to Beijing. [Laughter] It's an event 
that marked the beginning of renewal--renewed cultural exchanges between 
our two nations. Today, Chinese athletes compete professionally in the 
United States, and Americans appreciate the opportunity to see them 
play.
    In 2008, China will welcome athletes from all over the world as your 
great nation hosts the summer Olympics. Beijing will showcase China's 
transformation and demonstrate China's commitment to the international 
institutions that make fair and peaceful competition possible for all 
nations.
    Mr. President, I thank you for the constructive and candid 
conversations we had this morning. I appreciate the opportunity to 
expand the dialog between our two great nations. And, Mr. President, I'm 
pleased to offer a toast to you and to your gracious wife and to the 
people of China.

Note: The President spoke at 1:20 p.m. in the East Room at the White 
House. In his remarks, he referred to Liu Yongqing, wife of President 
Hu. The transcript released by the Office of the Press Secretary also 
included the remarks of President Hu.