Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Letter to Congressional Leaders on the War Powers Resolution Report for Libya and Yemen September 14, 2012 Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)  On September 12, 2012, in response to an attack on our diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya, that killed four U.S. citizens, including U.S. Ambassador John Christopher Stevens, a security force from the U.S. Africa Command deployed to Libya to support the security of U.S. personnel in Libya. Further, on September 13, an additional security force arrived in Yemen in response to security threats there.  Although these security forces are equipped for combat, these movements have been undertaken solely for the purpose of protecting American citizens and property. These security forces will remain in Libya and in Yemen until the security situation becomes such that they are no longer needed.  These actions have been directed consistent with my responsibility to protect U.S. citizens both at home and abroad, and in furtherance of U.S. national security and foreign policy interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct U.S. foreign relations and as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive.  I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the Congress fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law 93–148). I appreciate the support of the Congress in these actions. Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA NOTE: Identical letters were sent to John A. Boehner, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and Daniel K. Inouye, President pro tempore of the Senate. The letter referred to Foreign Service Officer Sean P. Smith and State Department security officers Glen A. Doherty and Tyrone S. Woods, who were killed in an attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11. Categories: Communications to Congress : Libya and Yemen, War Powers Resolution report, letter transmitting. Names: Doherty, Glen A.; Smith, Sean P.; Stevens, J. Christopher; Woods, Tyrone S. Subjects: Defense, Department of : Africa Command, U.S.; Libya : Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi; Libya : U.S. Ambassador ; Libya : U.S. security force, deployment; Yemen : U.S. security force, deployment. DCPD Number: DCPD201200726. 