Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Nominations Submitted to the Senate December 21, 2012 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service Officers. Submitted January 23 Robert E. Bacharach of Oklahoma, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Robert Harlan Henry, resigned. William J. Kayatta, Jr., of Maine, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Kermit Lipez, retired. Michael A. Shipp, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Mary Little Parell, retired. Submitted January 24 Anthony T. Clark, of North Dakota, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2016, vice Marc Spitzer, term expired. Erin C. Conaton, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Clifford L. Stanley. Scott H. DeLisi, of Minnesota, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uganda. Deborah S. Delisle, of South Carolina, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Thelma Melendez de Santa Ana. Tracey Ann Jacobson, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kosovo. James J. Jones, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Stephen Alan Owens, resigned. Frank Kendall III, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, vice Ashton B. Carter, resigned. James N. Miller, Jr., of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Michele A. Flournoy. Jerome H. Powell, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 2000, vice Frederic S. Mishkin. Marietta S. Robinson, of Michigan, to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term of 7 years from October 27, 2010, vice Thomas Hill Moore, term expired. Adam E. Sieminski, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, vice Richard G. Newell. Jeremy C. Stein, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 2004, vice Kevin M. Warsh, resigned. John Christopher Stevens, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Libya. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, of Louisiana, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Director General of the Foreign Service, vice Nancy J. Powell, resigned. Constance B. Tobias, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals for a term of 6 years, vice James Philip Terry, term expired. Pamela A. White, of Maine, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti. Jessica Lynn Wright, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Dennis M. McCarthy, resigned. Withdrawn January 24 Gineen Maria Bresso, of Florida, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2013 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on March 17, 2011. Scott C. Doney, of Massachusetts, to be Chief Scientist of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Timothy Charles Scheve, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2015, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Gloria Wilson Shelton, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims for the term of 15 years, vice a new position created by Public Law 110–389, approved October 10, 2008, which was sent to the Senate on June 22, 2011. Submitted February 1 Michael A. Botticelli, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice A. Thomas McLellan. Christy L. Romero, of Virginia, to be Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, vice Neil M. Barofsky, resigned. Withdrawn February 1 Alan D. Bersin, of California, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice W. Ralph Basham, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. John D. Podesta, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Alan D. Solomont, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted February 2 Jamie A. Hainsworth, of Rhode Island, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Rhode Island for the term of 4 years, vice Steven Gerard O'Donnell, resigned. Louise W. Kelton, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee for the term of 4 years, vice Denny Wade King, term expired. Stephanie Marie Rose, of Iowa, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice Robert W. Pratt, retiring. Michael P. Shea, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Christopher Droney, elevated. Submitted February 6 William Joseph Baer, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Christine Anne Varney. Marcilynn A. Burke, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Wilma A. Lewis, resigned. Joseph G. Jordan, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, vice Daniel I. Gordon. John Robert Norris, of Iowa, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2017 (reappointment). Jeremiah O'Hear Norton, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the remainder of the term expiring July 15, 2013, vice Sheila C. Bair, resigned. Heidi Shyu, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Malcolm Ross O'Neill, resigned. Submitted February 13 Sharon Block, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Craig Becker, to which position she was appointed during last recess of the Senate. William P. Doyle, of Pennsylvania, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2013, vice Joseph E. Brennan, term expired. Terence Francis Flynn, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2015, vice Peter Schaumber, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate. Richard F. Griffin, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2016, vice Wilma B. Liebman, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate. Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., of Maryland, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2017 (reappointment). Katharina G. McFarland, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (new position). Kenneth Merten, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia. Submitted February 14 James M. Demers, of New Hampshire, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2014, vice Kevin Glenn Nealer, term expired. Naomi A. Walker, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2012, vice Christopher J. Hanley, term expired. Submitted February 16 Elissa F. Cadish, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Philip M. Pro, retired. Paul William Grimm, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Benson Everett Legg, retiring. Jill A. Pryor, of Georgia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Stanley F. Birch, Jr., retired. Mark E. Walker, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Florida, vice Stephan P. Mickle, retired. Submitted February 17 Erica Lynn Groshen, of New York, to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, for a term of 4 years, vice Keith Hall, term expired. Makila James, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland. Jeffrey D. Levine, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia. C. Peter Mahurin, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2016, vice Robert M. Duncan, term expired. Richard B. Norland, of Iowa, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Georgia. Carlos Pascual, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Energy Resources), vice John Stern Wolf. Major General John Peabody, U.S. Army, to be a member and President of the Mississippi River Commission. Mark A. Pekala, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia. Submitted February 29 Brian J. Davis, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Richard A. Lazzara, retired. John E. Dowdell, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, vice Terry C. Kern, retired. Submitted March 5 Edward M. Alford, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia. Peter William Bodde, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal. Piper Anne Wind Campbell, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mongolia. Submitted March 12 Arthur Bienenstock, of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation for a term expiring May 10, 2016, vice Louis J. Lanzerotti, term expired. Suravi Gangopadhyay, of Michigan, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2016, vice Jeffrey Patchen, term expired. Luis Herrera, of California, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2014, vice Katina P. Strauch, term expired. Dorothea-Maria Rosen, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia. Suzanne E. Thorin, of New York, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2015, vice Sandra Pickett, term expired. Katherine C. Tobin, of New York, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2016, vice Carolyn L. Gallagher, term expired. Withdrawn March 12 Carla M. Leon-Decker, of Virginia,  to be a member of the National Credit Union Administration Board for a term expiring August 2, 2017, vice Gigi Hyland, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on October 20, 2011. Submitted March 19 Mark L. Asquino, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. Edward W. Brehm, of Minnesota, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2017 (reappointment). Derek H. Chollet, of Nebraska, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Alexander Vershbow. Kathleen H. Hicks, of Virginia, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice James N. Miller, Jr. Susanna Loeb, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring March 15, 2016, vice Craig T. Ramey, term expired. Submitted March 21 Rainey Ransom Brandt, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Joan Z. McAvoy, retired. John S. Leonardo, of Arizona, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of 4 years, vice Dennis K. Burke, resigned. Submitted March 27 Michael Peter Huerta,  of the District of Columbia, to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the term of 5 years, vice J. Randolph Babbitt. Brett H. McGurk,  of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq. James C. Miller III,  of Virginia, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the term expiring December 8, 2017 (reappointment). Michele Jeanne Sison,  of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Maldives. Submitted March 28 Robert James Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). John Gerson Levi,  of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Laurie I. Mikva, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2013 (reappointment). Martha L. Minow, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted March 29 Yvonne Brathwaite Burke, of California, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years (new position). Patricia K. Falcone, of California, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Philip E. Coyle III.  Douglas M. Griffiths, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique. Maria Rosario Jackson,  of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016, vice Terence Alan Teachout, term expired. Patrick A. Miles, Jr., of Michigan, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Michigan for the term of 4 years, vice Margaret M. Chiara, resigned. Patrick J. Wilkerson,  of Oklahoma, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for the term of 4 years, vice John William Loyd, term expired. Danny Chappelle Williams, Sr., of Oklahoma, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma for the term of 4 years, vice David E. O'Meilia, term expired. Submitted April 16 Jay Nicholas Anania, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname. Gene Allan Cretz, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ghana. Susan Marsh Elliott, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tajikistan. Ingrid A. Gregg, of Michigan, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2017, vice John E. Kidde, term expired. James L. Henderson, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2017, vice John Peyton, term expired. David J. Lane, of Florida, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture. Vicki Miles-LaGrange, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2015, vice Roger L. Hunt, term expired. Charles P. Rose, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring April 16, 2017, vice Stephen M. Prescott, term expired. Patricia M. Wald, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2019 (reappointment). Submitted April 18 Charles Benton, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2013, vice Harry Robinson, Jr., term expired. Christie Pearson Brandau, of Iowa, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2016, vice Lotsee Patterson, term expired. Norberto Jesus Castro, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2016, vice Douglas G. Myers, term expired. William B. Schultz, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services, vice Daniel Meron. Submitted April 25 Terrence G. Berg, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Arthur J. Tarnow, retired. Jesus G. Bernal, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Stephen G. Larson, resigned. Charles R. Breyer, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2015, vice Ruben Castillo, term expired. Shelly Deckert Dick, of Louisiana, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Louisiana, vice Ralph E. Tyson, deceased. Lorna G. Schofield, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Shira A. Scheindlin, retired. Submitted April 26 Timothy M. Broas, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Richard L. Morningstar, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan. Sean Sullivan, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2015, vice Larry W. Brown, resigned. Withdrawn April 26 Thomas M. Beck, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Elizabeth Dougherty, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 2011. Matthew J. Bryza, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011, which was sent to the Senate on January 26, 2011. Submitted May 8 Maria Lopez De Leon, of Texas, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016, vice James Ballinger, term expired. Emil J. Kang, of North Carolina, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice Benjamin Donenberg, term expiring. Kristine L. Svinicki, of Virginia, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2017 (reappointment). Submitted May 10 Deborah Ruth Malac, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Liberia. Thomas Skerik Sowers II, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Public and Intergovernmental Affairs), vice Ladda Tammy Duckworth. Fernando Torres-Gil, of California, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2014 (reappointment). Submitted May 14 Frank Paul Geraci, Jr., of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of New York, vice David G. Larimer, retired. Fernando M. Olguin, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Jacqueline H. Nguyen, elevated. Submitted May 15 Thomas Hart Armbruster, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. David Bruce Wharton, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe. Withdrawn May 15 Arunava Majumdar, of California, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on November 30, 2011. Submitted May 17 Gary Blankinship, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Ruben Monzon, resigned. Matthew W. Brann, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas I. Vanaskie, elevated. Malachy Edward Mannion, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, vice A. Richard Caputo, retired. Derek J. Mitchell, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Union of Burma. Submitted May 21 Joseph Byrne Donovan, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2013, vice Lane Carson, resigned.  Bruce R. Sievers, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Kenneth R. Weinstein, term expired. Thomas M. Durkin, of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Wayne R. Andersen, retired. Submitted May 24 Greta Christine Holtz, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman. Alexander Mark Laskaris, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea. Jonathan Lippman, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Robert A. Miller, term expired. Jonathan Lippman, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2015 (reappointment). Allison M. Macfarlane, of Maryland, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2013, vice Gregory B. Jaczko, resigned. Marcie B. Ries, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career-Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria. Walter M. Shaub, Jr., of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics for a term of 5 years, vice Robert Irwin Cusick, Jr., term expired. Submitted June 7 Mignon L. Clyburn, of South Carolina, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2012 (reappointment). Stephen Crawford, of Maryland, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the remainder of the term expiring December 8, 2015, vice Alan C. Kessler, resigned. John M. Koenig, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus. Withdrawn June 7 Terence Francis Flynn, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2015, vice Peter Schaumber, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 2011. Terence Francis Flynn, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2015, vice Peter Schaumber, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate, which was sent to the Senate on February 13, 2012. Roslyn Ann Mazer, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security, vice Richard L. Skinner, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 21, 2011. Submitted June 11 Caitlin Joan Halligan, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated. Kimberley Sherri Knowles, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Zinora M. Mitchell, retired. William H. Orrick III, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Charles R. Breyer, retired. Srikanth Srinivasan, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice A. Raymond Randolph, retired. Jon S. Tigar, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Saundra Brown Armstrong, retired. Submitted June 14 Mark D. Gearan, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 1, 2015 (reappointment). Michael David Kirby, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Serbia. Withdrawn June 19 Brett H. McGurk, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq, which was sent to the Senate on March 27, 2012. Submitted June 20 David Masumoto, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice Stephen W. Porter, term expiring. Polly Ellen Trottenberg, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, vice Roy W. Kienitz. Withdrawn June 20 Patricia M. Wald, of the District of Columbia, to be member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2019 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on April 16, 2012. Submitted June 25 Sheri Polster Chappell, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Gregory A. Presnell, retired. Katherine Polk Failla, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Denise Cote, retired. Troy L. Nunley, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Garland E. Burrell, Jr., retiring. Submitted June 27 William R. Brownfield, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, for the personal rank of Career Ambassador in recognition of especially distinguished service over a sustained period. Kristie Anne Kenny, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, for the personal rank of Career Ambassador in recognition of especially distinguished service over a sustained period. Thomas Alfred Shannon, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, for the personal rank of Career Ambassador in recognition of especially distinguished service over a sustained period. Submitted June 28 Camila Ann Alire, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Allen C. Guelzo, term expired. Ramon Saldivar, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Wilfred M. McClay, term expired. Withdrawn June 28 Timothy M. Broas, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which was sent to the Senate on April 26, 2012. Submitted July 11 Dorothy Kosinski,  of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Ricardo Quinones, term expired. Dawn M. Liberi, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Burundi. Stephen D. Mull, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Poland.  Walter North, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Papua New Guinea, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Solomon Islands and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Vanuatu. Submitted July 12 Mark A. Barnett,  of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Judith M. Barzilay, retired. Angela Tammy Dickinson,  of Missouri, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Missouri for the term of 4 years, vice Mary Elizabeth Phillips, resigned. Submitted July 17 Bidtah N. Becker,  of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2018, vice Perry R. Eaton, term expired. Submitted July 18 James B. Cunningham,  of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Richard G. Olson, Jr.,  of New Mexico, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Submitted July 25 Ranee Ramaswamy, of Minnesota, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice Miguel Campaneria, term expiring. Submitted July 31 Eric J. Jolly,  of Minnesota, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2016, vice Karen Brosius, term expired. Susana Torruella Leval,  of New York, to be a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2015, vice Katherine M.B. Berger, term expired. Submitted August 2 Pamela Ki Mai Chen,  of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Raymond J. Dearie, retired.  Eric Kenneth Fanning, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Erin C. Conaton, resigned.  Christopher J. Meade, of New York, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, vice George Wheeler Madison, resigned.  William J. Mielke, of Wisconsin, to be member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice George D. Milidrag.  Iqbal Paroo,  of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2017, vice Julius E. Coles, term expired.  Arthur H. Sulzer, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Charles E. Dorkey III.  John Hardy Isakson, of Georgia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Patrick J. Leahy, of Vermont, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Kevin K. Washburn, of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Larry J. Echo Hawk, resigned. Jenny R. Yang,  of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2017, vice Stuart Ishimaru, resigned. Submitted September 11 Robert Stephen Beecroft,  of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iraq.  T. Charles Cooper,  of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Jeffrey J. Grieco.  Rose Eilene Gottemoeller,  of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, vice Ellen O. Tauscher, resigned.  F. Scott Kieff, of Illinois, to be a member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring June 16, 2020, vice Daniel Pearson, term expired.  Joshua D. Wright, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 2012, vice J. Thomas Rosch, term expiring. Submitted September 13 Christopher R. Beall,  of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years, vice Donna R. McLean, term expired. Bruce Carter,  of Florida, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice Robert Bretley Lott, term expired. Lorne W. Craner,  of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 2 years (reappointment). Stewart M. De Soto,  of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 2016, vice Charles P. Ruch, term expired. Ted R. Dintersmith,  of Virginia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Mark Doms,  of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, vice Rebecca M. Blank, resigned. Deborah Ann McCarthy,  of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Lithuania. William Shaw McDermott,  of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring November 22, 2017, vice Robert Clarke Brown, term expired. Martin O'Malley, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring November 5, 2012, vice Joe Manchin III. Martin O'Malley,  of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring November 5, 2018 (reappointment). Joan M. Prince,  of Wisconsin, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Walter G. Secada,  of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring March 3, 2016, vice Laurie Stenberg Nichols, term expired. Jeffrey Shell,  of California, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2015, vice Walter Isaacson, term expired. Jeffrey Shell,  of California, to be Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, vice Walter Isaacson, resigned. Anne J. Udall,  of Oregon, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2016 (reappointment). John Unsworth,  of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Jean B. Elshtain, term expired. Nina Mitchell Wells,  of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring May 30, 2018, vice Charles Darwin Snelling, term expired. Submitted September 19 Sylvia M. Becker, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 2013, vice Ralph E. Martinez, term expired. Bibiana Boerio, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Mint for a term of 5 years, vice Edmund C. Moy, resigned. Joseph Eldridge, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for a term of 4 years, vice Anne Cahn, term expired. Robert F. Godec, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kenya. Keith Kelly, of Montana, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Raymond M. Jefferson. George E. Moose, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Beth J. Rosenberg, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice William B. Wark, term expired. Cheryl Saban, of California, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-seventh Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Frederick Vollrath, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (new position). Derek Anthony West, of California, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Thomas John Perrelli, resigned. Jennifer A. Dorsey, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Larry R. Hicks, retiring. Andrew Patrick Gordon, of Nevada, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Kent J. Dawson, retired. Caitlin Joan Halligan, of New York, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated. Michael J. McShane, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Michael R. Hogan, retired. Submitted September 20 Ketanji Brown Jackson, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Henry Harold Kennedy, retired. Robert D. Okun, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Linda Kay Davis, retired. Nelson Stephen Roman, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard M. Berman, retired. Submitted September 21 Marilyn A. Brown, of Georgia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2017 (reappointment). Alan F. Estevez, of the District of Columbia, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice Frank Kendall III. Vera Lynn Evans, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2017, vice William H. Graves, term expired. Vincent G. Logan, of New York, to be Special Trustee, Office of Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior, vice Ross Owen Swimmer, resigned. Michael McWherter, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2016, vice Dennis Bottorff, term expired. Joe H. Ritch, of Alabama, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2016, vice Thomas C. Gilliland, term expired. Olga Viso, of Minnesota, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice William Francis Price, Jr., term expired. Submitted November 14 Valerie E. Caproni, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Richard J. Holwell, resigned. Kenneth John Gonzales, of New Mexico, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice Bruce D. Black, retired. Claire R. Kelly, of New York, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Evan J. Wallach, elevated. Raymond P. Moore, of Colorado, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Colorado, vice Wiley Y. Daniel, retiring. Beverly Reid O'Connell, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Valerie L. Baker, retired. William L. Thomas, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Adalberto Jose Jordan, elevated. Analisa Torres, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Naomi Reice Buchwald, retired. Derrick Kahala Watson, of Hawaii, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice David A. Ezra, retired. Submitted November 15 Robert F. Cohen, Jr., of West Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2018 (reappointment). Timothy J. Feighery, of New York, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. for a term expiring September 30, 2015 (reappointment). Submitted November 27 Nitza I. Quinones Alejandro,  of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Richard Barclay Surrick, retired. Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Anita B. Brody, retired. Jeffrey L. Schmehl,  of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Thomas M. Golden, deceased.  Submitted December 10 Timothy Hyungrock Haahs, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2014, vice Morgan Edwards, term expired. Michael Wayne Hail, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2017, vice Sharon Tucker, term expired. Morton H. Halperin,  of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 3 years, vice Alan J. Patricof, term expiring. Submitted December 17 Richard J. Engler, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice William E. Wright, term expired. Nicholas Christopher Geale, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Elizabeth Dougherty, resigned. Linda A. Puchala, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Submitted December 21 Ernest W. Dubester,  of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 29, 2017 (reappointment). Carol Waller Pope, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2014 (reappointment). Names: Alford, Edward M.; Alire, Camila A.; Anania, Jay N.; Armbruster, Thomas H.; Asquino, Mark L.; Bacharach, Robert E.; Baer, William J.; Barnett, Mark A.; Beall, Christopher R.; Beck, Thomas M.; Becker, Bidtah N.; Becker, Sylvia M.; Beecroft, Robert S.; Benton, Charles; Berg, Terrence G.; Bernal, Jesus G.; Bersin, Alan D.; Bienenstock, Arthur; Blankinship, Gary; Block, Sharon; Bodde, Peter W.; Boerio, Bibiana; Botticelli, Michael A.; Brandau, Christie P.; Brandt, Rainey R.; Brann, Matthew W.; Brehm, Edward W.; Bresso, Gineen M.; Breyer, Charles R.; Broas, Timothy M.; Brown, Marilyn A.; Brownfield, William R.; Bryza, Matthew J.; Burke, Marcilynn A.; Burke, Yvonne B.; Cadish, Elissa F.; Campbell, Piper A.W.; Caproni, Valerie E.; Carter, Bruce; Castro, Norberto J.; Chappell, Sheri P.; Chen, Pamela K.M.; Chollet, Derek H.; Clark, Anthony T.; Clyburn, Mignon L.; Cohen, Robert F., Jr.; Conaton, Erin C.; Cooper, T. Charles; Craner, Lorne W.; Crawford, Stephen; Cretz, Gene A.; Cunningham, James B.; Davis, Brian J.; De Leon, Maria L.; De Soto, Stewart M.; DeLisi, Scott H.; Delisle, Deborah S.; Demers, James M.; Dick, Shelly D.; Dickinson, Angela T.; Dintersmith, Ted R.; Doms, Mark; Doney, Scott C.; Donovan, Joseph B.; Dorsey, Jennifer A.; Dowdell, John E.; Doyle, William P.; Dubester, Ernest W.; Durkin, Thomas M.; Eldridge, Joseph; Elliott, Susan Marsh; Engler, Richard J.; Estevez, Alan F.; Evans, V. Lynn; Failla, Katherine P.; Falcone, Particia K.; Fanning, Eric K.; Feighery, Timothy J.; Flynn, Terence F.; Gangopadhyay, Suravi; Geale, Nicholas C.; Gearan, Mark D.; Geraci, Frank P., Jr.; Godec, Robert F.; Gonzales, Kenneth J.; Gordon, Andrew P.; Gottemoeller, Rose E.; Gregg, Ingrid A.; Grey, Robert J., Jr.; Griffin, Richard F., Jr.; Griffiths, Douglas M.; Grimm, Paul W.; Groshen, Erica L.; Haahs, Timothy H.; Hail, Michael W.; Hainsworth, Jamie A.; Halligan, Caitlin J.; Halperin, Morton H.; Henderson, James L.; Herrera, Luis; Hicks, Kathleen H.; Holtz, Greta C.; Huerta, Michael P.; Isakson, John H.; Jackson, Ketanji B.; Jackson, Maria R.; Jacobson, Tracey A.; James, Makila; Jolly, Eric J.; Jones, James J.; Jordan, Joseph G.; Kang, Emil J.; Kayatta, William J., Jr.; Kelly, Claire R.; Kelly, Keith; Kelton, Louise W.; Kendall, Frank, III; Kenny, Kristie A.; Kieff, F. Scott; Kirby, Michael D.; Knowles, Kimberly S.; Koening, John M.; Kosinksi, Dorothy; Lane, David J.; Laskaris, Alexander M.; Leahy, Patrick J.; Leonardo, John S.; Leon-Decker, Carla M.; Leval, Susana T.; Levi, John G.; Levine, Jeffrey D.; Liberi, Dawn M.; Lidinsky, Richard A., Jr.; Lippman, Jonathan; Loeb, Susanna; Logan, Vincent G.; Macfarlane, Allison M.; Mahurin, C. Peter; Majumdar, Arunava; Malac, Deborah R.; Mannion, Malachy E.; Masumoto, David; Mazer, Roslyn A.; McCarthy, Deborah A.; McDermott, William S.; McFarland, Katharina G.; McGurk, Brett H.; McShane, Michael J.; McWherter, Michael; Meade, Christopher J.; Merten, Kenneth; Mielke, William J.; Mikva, Laurie I.; Miles, Patrick A., Jr.; Miles-LaGrange, Vicki; Miller, James C., III; Miller, James, N., Jr.; Minow, Martha L.; Mitchell, Derek J.; Moore, Raymond P.; Moose, George E.; Morningstar, Richard L.; Mull, Stephen D.; Norland, Richard B.; Norris, John R.; North, Walter; Norton, Jeremiah O.; Nunley, Troy L.; O'Connell, Beverly R.; Okun, Robert D.; Olguin, Fernando M.; Olson, Richard G., Jr.; O'Malley, Martin; Orrick, William H., III; Paroo, Iqbal; Pascual, Carlos; Peabody, John; Pekala, Mark A.; Podesta, John D.; Pope, Carol W.; Powell, Jerome H.; Prince, Joan M.; Pryor, Jill A.; Puchala, Linda A.; Quinones Alejandro, Nitza I.; Ramaswamy, Ranee; Restrepo, Luis Felipe; Ries, Marcie B.; Ritch, Joseph H.; Robinson, Marietta S.; Roman, Nelson S.; Romero, Christy L.; Rose, Charles P.; Rose, Stephanie M.; Rosen, Dorothea-Maria; Rosenberg, Beth J.; Saban, Cheryl; Saldivar, Ramon; Scheve, Timothy C.; Schmehl, Jeffrey L.; Schofield, Lorna G.; Schultz, William B.; Secada, Walter G.; Shannon, Thomas A., Jr.; Shaub, Walter M., Jr.; Shea, Michael P.; Shell, Jeffrey; Shelton, Gloria W.; Shipp, Michael A.; Shyu, Heidi; Sieminski, Adam E.; Sievers, Bruce R.; Sison, Michele J.; Sowers, Thomas S., II; Srinivasan, Srikanth; Stein, Jeremy C.; Stevens, John C.; Sullivan, Sean; Sulzer, Arthur H.; Svinicki, Kristine L.; Thomas, William L.; Thomas-Greenfield, Linda; Thorin, Suzanne E.; Tigar, Jon S.; Tobias, Constance B.; Tobin, Katherine C.; Torres, Analisa; Torres-Gil, Fernando; Trottenberg, Polly E.; Udall, Anne J.; Unsworth, John; Valencia-Weber, Gloria; Viso, Olga; Vollrath, Frederick; Wald, Patricia M.; Walker, Mark E.; Walker, Naomi; Washburn, Kevin K.; Watson, Derrick K.; Wells, Nina M.; West, Derek A.; Wharton, David B.; White, Pamela A.; Wilkerson, Patrick J.; Williams, Danny C., Sr.; Wright, Jessica L.; Wright, Joshua D.; Yang, Jenny R. 