Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Joint Statement by President Barack Obama, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and President Francois Hollande of France on the Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict June 18, 2012 We, the Presidents of the OSCE Minsk Group Co-Chair countries—France, the Russian Federation, and the United States of America—are united in our resolute commitment to a peaceful settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. The parties to the conflict should not further delay making the important decisions necessary to reach a lasting and peaceful settlement. We regret that the Presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia did not take the decisive steps that our countries called for in the joint statement at Deauville on May 26, 2011. Nevertheless, the progress that has been achieved should provide the momentum to complete work on the framework for a comprehensive peace.  We call upon the leaders of Armenia and Azerbaijan to fulfill the commitment in their January 23, 2012 joint statement at Sochi to "accelerate" reaching agreement on the Basic Principles for a Settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict. As evidence of their political will, they should refrain from maximalist positions in the negotiations, respect the 1994 ceasefire agreement, and abstain from hostile rhetoric that increases tension. We urge the leaders to be guided by the principles of the Helsinki Final Act—particularly those relating to the non-use of force or the threat of force, territorial integrity, and equal rights and self-determination of peoples—and the elements of a settlement outlined in our countries' statements at L'Aquila in 2009 and Muskoka in 2010. Military force will not resolve the conflict and would only prolong the suffering and hardships endured by the peoples of the region for too long. Only a peaceful, negotiated settlement can allow the entire region to move beyond the status quo toward a secure and prosperous future. Our countries will continue to work closely with the sides, and we call upon them to make full use of the assistance of the Minsk Group Co-Chairs as mediators. However, peace will depend ultimately upon the parties' willingness to seek an agreement based on mutual understanding, rather than one-sided advantage, and a shared vision of the benefits that peace will bring to all their peoples and to future generations. NOTE: The joint statement referred to President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan; and President Serzh Sargsian of Armenia. An original was not available for verification of the content of this joint statement. Categories: Joint Statements : France, Nagorno-Karabakh conflict; Joint Statements : Russia :: Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Names: Aliyev, Ilham; Hollande, Francois; Putin, Vladimir V.; Sargsian, Serzh. Subjects: Armenia : Nagorno-Karabakh conflict; Armenia : President; Armenia : Relations with Azerbaijan; Azerbaijan : Nagorno-Karabakh conflict; Azerbaijan : President; Azerbaijan : Relations with Armenia; France : President; Russia : President. DCPD Number: DCPD201200492. 