Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Statement on the Attack on the United States Mission in Benghazi, Libya September 12, 2012 I strongly condemn the outrageous attack on our diplomatic facility in Benghazi, which took the lives of four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens. Right now the American people have the families of those we lost in our thoughts and prayers. They exemplified America's commitment to freedom, justice, and partnership with nations and people around the globe and stand in stark contrast to those who callously took their lives. I have directed my administration to provide all necessary resources to support the security of our personnel in Libya and to increase security at our diplomatic posts around the globe. While the United States rejects efforts to denigrate the religious beliefs of others, we must all unequivocally oppose the kind of senseless violence that took the lives of these public servants. On a personal note, Chris was a courageous and exemplary representative of the United States. Throughout the Libyan revolution, he selflessly served our country and the Libyan people at our mission in Benghazi. As Ambassador in Tripoli, he has supported Libya's transition to democracy. His legacy will endure wherever human beings reach for liberty and justice. I am profoundly grateful for his service to my administration and deeply saddened by this loss. The brave Americans we lost represent the extraordinary service and sacrifices that our civilians make every day around the globe. As we stand united with their families, let us now redouble our own efforts to carry their work forward. NOTE: The statement referred to Foreign Service Officer Sean P. Smith and State Department security officers Glen A. Doherty and Tyrone S. Woods, who were killed in an attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11. Categories: Statements by the President : Libya, attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi. Names: Doherty, Glen A.; Smith, Sean P.; Stevens, J. Christopher; Woods, Tyrone S. Subjects: Deaths : Stevens, J. Christopher; Foreign policy, U.S. : Civil and human rights, promotion efforts; Foreign policy, U.S. : Diplomatic security, strengthening efforts; Libya : Attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi; Libya : Democracy efforts; Libya : U.S. Ambassador. DCPD Number: DCPD201200712. 