Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Letter to Congressional Leaders on the Implementation Plan for the Whole-of-Government Vision Prescribed in the 2010 National Security Strategy September 27, 2012 Dear __________: Pursuant to section 1072 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112–81), I hereby submit the enclosed implementation plan for the whole-of-government vision prescribed in the 2010 National Security Strategy. Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA NOTE: Identical letters were sent to Daniel K. Inouye, chairman, and Thad Cochran, vice chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriations; Carl Levin, chairman, and John S. McCain III, ranking member, Senate Committee on Armed Services; G. Kent Conrad, chairman, and Jefferson B. Sessions III, ranking member, Senate Committee on the Budget; John F. Kerry, chairman, and Richard G. Lugar, ranking member, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations; Joseph I. Lieberman, chairman, and Susan M. Collins, ranking member, Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs; Dianne Feinstein, chair, and Saxby Chambliss, vice chairman, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence; Patrick J. Leahy, chairman, and Charles E. Grassley, ranking member, Senate Committee on the Judiciary; Harold D. Rogers, chairman, and Norman D. Dicks, ranking member, House Committee on Appropriations; Howard P. "Buck" McKeon, chairman, and Adam Smith, ranking member, House Committee on Armed Services; Paul D. Ryan, chairman, and Chris Van Hollen, ranking member, House Committee on the Budget; Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, chair, and Howard L. Berman, ranking member, House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Peter T. King, chairman, and Bennie G. Thompson, ranking member, House Committee on Homeland Security; Mike Rogers, chairman, and C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger, ranking member, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; Lamar S. Smith, chairman, and John Conyers, Jr., ranking member, House Committee on the Judiciary; and Darrell E. Issa, chairman, and Elijah E. Cummings, ranking member, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Categories: Communications to Congress : 2010 National Security Strategy, implementation plan for whole-of-Government vision, letter. Subjects: Defense and national security : 2010 National Security Strategy, implementation plan. DCPD Number: DCPD201200756. 