Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2012 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 1 In the morning, in Kailua, HI, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 2 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cleveland, OH, on January 4. January 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. January 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Cleveland, OH.  In the afternoon, outside the home of William and Endia Eason, the President greeted Cleveland residents. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Pentagon in Arlington, VA, on January 5. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2011 NBA champion Dallas Mavericks to the White House on January 9. The President announced the recess appointment of Richard A. Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The President announced the recess appointments of Sharon Block, Terence F. Flynn, and Richard Griffin as members of the National Labor Relations Board. January 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President met with his Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. January 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss the Middle East peace process. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Scion restaurant, the President had lunch with Bill Blackwelder of Fayetteville, NC, Val Grossmann of Westminster, CO, Kathie Toigo of Yerington, NV, and Scott Zoebisch of Atlanta, GA, winners of a contest held by his 2012 election campaign. The White House announced that the President will meet with his Council on Jobs and Competitiveness at the White House on January 17. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm and snowstorm from October 29 through 30, 2011. January 7 The White House announced that the President will host the White House Insourcing American Jobs Forum on July 11. January 8 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Rep. Gabrielle D. Giffords to discuss a candlelight vigil being held in honor of the victims of the January 8, 2011, shootings in Tucson, AZ. January 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Portia Simpson-Miller of Jamaica to congratulate her on her election victory and discuss Jamaica-U.S. relations. Then, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, the President met with Matthew Ritsko, winner of the 2011 Securing Americans' Value and Efficiency  (SAVE) Award. In the evening, at the Jefferson hotel, the President attended a roundtable discussion with campaign supporters. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2011 World Series champion St. Louis Cardinals to the White House on January 17. January 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Minister of Foreign Affairs Saud al-Faysal bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. The White House announced further details on the White House Insourcing American Jobs Forum to be held on January 11. The White House announced that the President with welcome King Abdullah II of Jordan to the White House on January 17. The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy E. Soderberg as Chairperson of the Public Interest Declassification Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth R. Parker as a member of the Public Interest Declassification Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Peter H. Bell, and Jack M. Brandt as members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities. The President announced that he has named Cecilia Munoz as Director of the White House Domestic Policy Council. January 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with actors Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie to discuss their advocacy on human rights issues. Later, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, where he visited his campaign headquarters and met with campaign volunteers and staffers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling, Special Assistant to the President for Manufacturing Policy Jason Miller, and Senior Policy Adviser Jacob Leibenluft.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. January 12 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the Middle East peace process. He also had a telephone conversation with head coach Nick Saban of the University of Alabama football team to congratulate him and the team on winning the BCS Championship. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Guatemala to attend the inauguration of Otto Perez Molina as President of Guatemala on January 14: Aaron S. Willams (head of delegation); Arnold A. Chacon; Mary L. Landrieu; and Mark Feierstein. January 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss issues related to democracy, security, and development in the Middle East and the situations in Iraq, Syria, and Iran. He then met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Jefferson hotel, where he attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. He then returned to the White House, where, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Family Theater, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a screening of the film "Red Tails" for members of the Tuskegee Airmen, cast, and crew. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will host the 2011 World Series champion St. Louis Cardinals at the White House on January 17. The White House announced that the President will host the 2011 Stanley Cup champion Boston Bruins to the White House on January 23. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Monrovia, Liberia, to attend the inauguration of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf as the President of Liberia on January 16: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); Linda Thomas-Greenfield; Christopher A. Coons; Johnnie Carson; Melanne Verveer; Donald Steinberg; Carrie Hessler-Radelet; Carter F. Ham; and Grant T. Harris. January 16 In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the "Let Freedom Ring” celebration in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr.  January 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia to the White House on January 30. The White House announced that the President will travel to Lake Buena Vista, FL, on January 19. The President announced that he has designated Jeffrey D. Zients as Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget. January 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to convey his administration's decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline project and to discuss Canada-U.S. relations. He also met with White House Counsel Kathryn Ruemmler in the Oval Office. In the evening, in the East Room, the President hosted a reception for attendees of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. January 19 In the morning, the President traveled to Lake Buena Vista, FL. While en route aboard Air Force One, he met with Mayor John"Buddy" Dyer, Jr., of Orlando, FL. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. January 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi of Egypt to discuss Egypt's transition to democracy and Egyptian-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, at the Jefferson hotel, the President attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers.  January 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Suzanne P. Paterno, wife, and Joseph V."Jay" Paterno, Jr., son, of former Pennsylvania State University football team head coach Joseph V. Paterno to express his condolences on Coach Paterno's death. Also during the day, in the Oval Office, he met with Assistant to the President and Director of Speechwriting Jonathan E. Favreau to prepare for his State of the Union Address. In the evening, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on developments concerning American aid worker Jessica Buchanan and Danish aid worker  Poul Hagen Thisted, held captive in Somalia since October 2011. Following the briefing, he authorized a rescue mission. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to the White House on February 9. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cedar Rapids, IA, Phoenix, AZ, and Las Vegas, NV, on January 25. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cambridge, MD, on January 27. The President announced his intention to nominate Tony Clark to be a Commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Erin C. Conaton to be Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott H. DeLisi to be Ambassador to Uganda. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah Delisle to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Tracey A. Jacobson to be Ambassador to Kosovo. The President announced his intention to nominate James J. Jones to be Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Frank Kendall III to be Under Secretary for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate James N. Miller to be Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Marietta S. Robinson to be a Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Adam E. Sieminski to be Administrator of the Energy Information Administration at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate John Christopher Stevens to be Ambassador to Libya. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Thomas-Greenfield to be Director General of the Foreign Service at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Constance B. Tobias to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals. The President announced his intention to nominate Pamela A. White to be Ambassador to Haiti. The President announced his intention to nominate Jessica L. Wright to be Assistant Secretary for Reserve Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to appoint Eldar Shafir as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert J. Stevens as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Kimberlydawn Wisdom as a member of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health. The President announced that he has nominated Robert E. Bacharach to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated William J. Kayatta, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Michael A. Shipp to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. January 24 Throughout the day, the President received updates from Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the mission to rescue American aid worker Jessica Buchanan and Danish aid worker Poul Hagen Thisted from captivity in Somalia. In the evening, the President was informed that Ms. Bucahanan and Mr. Thisted had been successfully rescued. Later, at the U.S. Capitol, following the State of the Union Address, he had a telephone conversation with Ms. Buchanan's father John Buchanan to inform him of her rescue. The White House announced that the President will travel to Denver, CO, and Detroit, MI, on January 26. The White House announced that the President will travel to Ann Arbor, MI, on January 27. January 25 In the morning, the President traveled to Cedar Rapids, IA. Upon arrival, he traveled to Conveyor Engineering & Manufacturing, where he toured the new design and production facility and met with employees. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chandler, AZ. In the evening, at Intel Corporation Ocotillo Campus, the President participated in an interview with Maria Elena Salinas of Univision's"Noticiero" program. Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Element Las Vegas Summerlin hotel. January 26 In the morning, at the Element Las Vegas Summerlin hotel, the President participated in a telephone interview with Frankie Darcell of WMXD in Detroit, MI, which was taped for later broadcast. He then traveled to UPS Las Vegas South, where he participated in separate interviews with Diane Sawyer of ABC's "World News with Diane Sawyer" program and Rosana Romero of KBLR–TV in Las Vegas, NV. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Buckley Air Force Base in Aurora, CO. Later, he participated in an interview with Maria Rozman of KDEN in Denver, CO, followed by a telephone interview with Paul W. Smith of WJR in Detroit, MI, which was taped for later broadcast. He then traveled to Detroit, MI, arriving in the evening. In the evening, upon arrival in Detroit, MI, he traveled to the Sheraton Detroit Metro Airport hotel. January 27 In the morning, the President traveled to Ann Arbor, MI. Later, he traveled to Cambridge, MD. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President met with former President George H.W. Bush and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. Botticelli to be Deputy Director at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Christy Romero to be Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The President announced his intention to appoint Alex Mehran to be a member of the board of directors of the Presidio Trust. January 28 In the evening, at the Capital Hilton hotel, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the Alfalfa Club dinner. January 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for the diplomatic corps. In the evening, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in an interview with YouTube and Google+ participants. The White House announced that the President will travel to Falls Church, VA, on February 1. January 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he met with member of the Cabinet. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The White House announced that the President will host the White House science fair on February 7. February 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Falls Church, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The President declared a major disaster in Utah and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe storm from November 30 through December 1, 2011. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds and flooding from January 22 through 23. February 2 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he had separate meetings with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie Marie Rose to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Iowa. The President announced that he has nominated Michael P. Shea to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut. The President announced that he has nominated Jamie A. Hainsworth to be U.S. marshal for the District of Rhode Island. The President announced that he has nominated Louise W. Kelton to be U.S. marshal for the Middle District of Tennessee. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm from November 15 through 17, 2011. February 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, at the Jefferson hotel, he attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom from March 13 through 14. The White House released further details on the White House science fair on February 7. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeremiah O. Norton to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Bair to be Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcilynn A. Burke to be Assistant Secretary for Land and Mineral Management at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Jordan to be Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate John Norris to be a Commissioner of the Federal Emergency Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Heidi Shyu to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology. The President announced his intention to appoint Milton Irvin and George B. Walker, Jr., as members of the President's Board of Advisers on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. February 5 In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in an interview with Matt Lauer of NBC's "Today" show for later broadcast. February 6 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. The White House released further details on the White House science fair on February 7. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will host a dinner honoring U.S. servicemembers who served in Iraq at the White House on February 29. February 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. Later, in the State Dining Room, he viewed projects exhibited for a White House science fair.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with New York Giants head coach Tom Coughlin to congratulate him on his team's victory over the New England Patriots in Super Bowl XLVI.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of Denmark to the White House on February 24. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil to the White House on April 9. February 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Nationals Park, where he attended a Democratic Senate Caucus retreat. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, in the Situation Room, he met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. February 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to Annandale, VA, on February 13. The White House announced that the President will award the 2011 National Medal of Arts and the National Humanities Medal on February 13. February 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the South Court Auditorium of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he dropped by a community leaders briefing with leaders of The Arc organization for people with intellectual and development disabilities. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Jefferson hotel, where he attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. The White House released further details on the President's awarding of the 2011 National Medal of Arts and the National Humanities Medal on February 13. The President announced his intention to nominate William P. Doyle to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., to be Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission.  The President announced his intention to nominate James M. Demers and Naomi A. Walker to be members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Katrina McFarland to be Assistant Secretary for Acquisition at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth Merten to be Ambassador to Croatia. The President announced has intention to appoint David Kotelchuck and Loretta R. Valerio as members of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health at the Centers for Disease Control. The President announced his intention to appoint Karen L. Jefferson as a member of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission at the National Archives and Records Administration. The President announced his intention to appoint Martin C. Faga and William H. Leary as members of the Public Interest Declassification Board at the National Archives and Records Administration. February 12 The White House announced that the President will travel to Milwaukee, WI, on February 15. February 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Annandale, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the situations in Syria, Somalia, and Afghanistan. They also discussed the economic situation in Europe, including recent developments in Greece; preparations for the London Conference on Somalia on February 23;  and preparations for Prime Minister Cameron's official visit to Washington, DC, on March 13 through 14. The White House announced that the President will travel to Everett, WA, on February 17. February 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Room, the President participated in separate television interviews with Paula Francis of KLAS in Las Vegas, NV, Amanda Davis of WAGA in Atlanta, GA, Keith Cate of WFLA in Tampa, FL, and Paul Cameron of WBTV in Charlotte, NC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Alexandria, VA, where, at Vermilion Restaurant, they had dinner. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. February 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Milwaukee, WI. In the afternoon, the President toured the Master Lock Co. manufacturing plant and met with employees. Later, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin and Rep. Christopher Van Hollen to discuss the ongoing negotiations over legislation to extend the payroll tax cut. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, DC, on February 22. February 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Coronoa del Mar, CA. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, at the Great Eastern restaurant, the President visited with patrons and ordered lunch. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to the Holy See to attend a ceremony elevating Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan and Archbishop Edwin F. O’Brien to the College of Cardinals on February 18: Miguel H. Diaz (head of delegation); and Kenneth F. Hackett. The President announced his intention to nominate Erica L. Groshen to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey D. Levine to be Ambassador to Estonia. The President announced his intention to nominate C. Peter Mahurin to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Maj. Gen. John Peabody, USA, to be President of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Jill A. Pryor to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Elissa F. Cadish to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has nominated Paul W. Grimm to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The President announced that he has nominated Mark E. Walker to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida. February 17 In the morning, the President traveled to Everett, WA, where he toured the Boeing Co. production facility and met with employees. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Medina, WA, and then to Bellevue, WA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Makila James to be Ambassador to Swaziland. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard B. Norland to be Ambassador to Georgia. The President announced his intention to nominate Carlos Pascual to be Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark A. Pekala to be Ambassador to Latvia. The President announced his intention to appoint David C. Lizarraga and Ronald L. Phillips as members of the Community Development Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Charles Shively as U.S. Alternate Commissioner of the Kansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Earnie Gilder as U.S. Commissioner of the Kansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Gary W. Loveman and Denise Morrison as members of the President's Export Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Amy Gutmann as Chair of the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues. The President announced his intention to appoint James W. Wagner as Vice Chair of the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues. The President announced his intention to appoint David M. Strauss as Chairman of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. February 20 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss regional support for Afghan-led reconciliation efforts, the recent Afghanistan-Pakistan-Iran trilateral meetings in Islamabad, Pakistan, and Afghanistan-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on February 23. February 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss economic stabilization efforts in Europe, the global financial markets, and the upcoming Group of Eight (G–8) summit. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. February 22 In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception in honor of the groundbreaking of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African American History and Culture. February 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Coral Gables, FL, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Pinecrest, FL. In the evening, the President traveled to Orlando, FL. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. February 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he participated in a meeting of the Democratic Governors Association. The White House announced that the President has named David P. Agnew to be Director of Intergovernmental Affairs. February 25 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Gen. John R. Allen, USMC, commander, NATO International Security Assistance Force, Afghanistan, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and the deaths of two U.S. servicemembers. February 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, at the Jefferson hotel, he attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will travel to Nashua, NH, on March 1. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to the White House on March 14. February 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. February 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch with congressional leaders to discuss the national economy and job creation. During the day, the President participated in an interview with ESPN's Bill Simmons. The President announced that he has nominated Brian J. Davis to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated John E. Dowdell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma.  March 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Nashua, NH, arriving in the afternoon In the afternoon, the President toured Nashua Community College. Later, he traveled to New York City. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana to the White House on March 8. March 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Georgetown University law student Sandra K. Fluke to offer his support and express his disappointment regarding comments made about her in the media following her February 29 testimony before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on student health insurance coverage of contraceptive services. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and presented Purple Hearts to eight servicemembers. He then returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Edward Alford to be Ambassador to Gambia. The President announced that he as nominate Peter W. Bodde to be Ambassador to Nepal. The President announced his intention to nominate Piper A.W. Campbell to be Ambassador to Mongolia. The President announced his intention to appoint Rye Barcott and Christie L. Gilson as members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from January 17 through 21. March 3 During the day, the President was briefed by Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate on severe weather and tornadoes affecting the South and Midwest. He then had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., of Indiana, Gov. Steven L. Beshear of Kentucky, and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio to express his condolences on the loss of life due to severe weather and tornadoes and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts. March 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the State Dining Room, the President had lunch with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and U.S. and Israeli delegations. Later, in the Oval Office, he had separate meetings with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mount Holly, NC, on March 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Petersburg, VA, on March 9. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on May 14. The White House announced that the President will travel to Joplin, MO, on May 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Colorado Springs, CO, on May 23. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from January 14 through 23. March 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President met with wounded warriors, after which he signed the prosthetic arm of Sgt. Carlos Evans, USMC. Later, at the Jefferson hotel, the President attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will travel to Houston, TX, on March 9. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from February 29 through March 3. March 7 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Prime Minister Abd al-Rahim al-Keeb of Libya to discuss the situation in Libya and Libya-U.S. relations. Later, he traveled to Mount Holly, NC, where, in the afternoon, he toured the Daimler Trucks North America manufacturing plant and met with employees. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the East Room, he met with students from the U.S. Senate Youth Program. March 8 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, the transition of security operations to Afghan forces, and Afghanistan-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with White House Chief of Staff Jacob J."Jack" Lew, National Economic Council Director Gene B. Sperling, and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Alan B. Krueger. Later, at the Boundary Road Restaurant, he and Mrs. Obama had dinner with ReGina Newkirk of Nashville, TN, Cathleen Loringer of Wauwatosa, WI, and Judy Glassman of Cambridge, MA, winners of a contest held by his 2012 election campaign. March 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He then traveled to Petersburg, VA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to congratulate him on his victory in the recent Presidential election and discuss Russia-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, upon arrival in Petersburg, the President toured the Rolls-Royce Crosspointe manufacturing plant and met with employees. Later, he traveled to Houston, TX. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom will travel to Dayton, OH, on March 13. The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur Bienenstock to be a member of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Paula Gangopadhyay, Luis Herrera, and Suzanne E. Thorin to be members of the National Museum and Library Services Board.  The President announced his intention to nominate Dorothea-Maria"Doria" Rosen to be Ambassador to Micronesia. The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine C. Tobin to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to appoint Sonny Ramaswamy as Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced that he has appointed Todd Park as White House Chief Technology Officer. The President declared a major disaster in Indiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes from February 29 through March 3. March 11 In the morning, national security staff members informed the President of the incident in Panjwai, Afghanistan. In the afternoon, the President met with his national security team, where he was briefed further on the situation in Panjwai, Afghanistan. He then had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and expressed his shock and sadness over the reported killing and wounding of Afghan civilians and extended his condolences to the Afghan people. March 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he participated in separate interviews with Marc Brown of KABC in Los Angeles, CA, Karen Leigh of KCNC in Denver, CO, Terri Gruca of KVUE in Austin, TX, John Bachman of WHO in Des Moines, IA, Greg Warmoth of WFTV in Orlando, FL, Rob Braun of WKRC in Cincinnati, OH, Adriana Arevalo of KINC of Las Vegas, NV, and Jon Delano of KDKA in Pittsburg, PA. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with officers of the National League of Cities. March 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with 2012 Intel Science Talent Search student finalists. In the afternoon, the President and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, traveled to Dayton, OH, where at the University of Dayton Arena, they attended an NCAA men's basketball championship game. During halftime, the President and the Prime Minister participated in an interview with CBS Sports announcer Clark Kellogg. In the evening, he and Prime Minister Cameron returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Largo, MD, on March 15.  March 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Cameron. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden held an expanded meeting with Prime Minister Cameron. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted Prime Minister Cameron and his wife, Samantha upon their arrival for a state dinner and reception. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photo opportunity with Prime Minister Cameron and Mrs. Cameron. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Lee Myungbak of South Korea, to welcome the entry into force of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement on March 15. He also thanked President Lee for Korea's cooperation in getting the agreement implemented. The President announced that he has appointed Grant Colfax as Director of the Office of National AIDS Policy. March 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Largo, MD. In the afternoon, at the Texas Ribs and BBQ restaurant in Clinton, MD, the President had lunch with Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland and visited with patrons. Then the President returned to Washington, DC, where, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. March 16 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to congratulate him and his wife on the birth of their daughter and to discuss Afghan forces transition of full responsibility for security across the country and other concerns. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL  In the afternoon, at the Palmer House Hilton hotel, the President attended and made remarks at a campaign event. Later, he traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the morning. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland to the White House on March 20. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa the White House on March 20. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boulder City, NV, Carlsbad, NM, Cushing, OK, and Columbus OH, on March 21 and 22. The White House announced that the President will name Brian McKeon to be Deputy Assistant to the President, Executive Secretary and Chief of Staff of the National Security Staff The President announced his intention to nominate Mark L. Asquino to be Ambassador to Guinea. The President announced his intention to nominate Derek H. Chollet to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen H. Hicks to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Susanna Loeb to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board of Education Sciences. The President announced his intention to nominate Ward Brehm to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe winter storm and flooding from February 29 through March 2. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Sate and local recovery efforts in the area struck by sever winter storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides from February 29 through March 5. March 17 In the afternoon, at The Dubliner restaurant and Irish pub, the President celebrated St. Patrick's Day with his cousin Henry Healy and Ollie Hayes, owner of a pub in Moneygall, Ireland. March 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to discuss the Middle East peace process. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, at the W Washington DC hotel, he attended a campaign event. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia to discuss the upcoming Summit of the Americas, implementation of the United States-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, and the Colombian Action Plan Related to Labor Rights. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boulder City, NV, and Oklahoma City, OK, on March 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cushing, OK, and Columbus, OH, on March 22. March 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The White House announced that the President will travel to Maljamar, NM, on March 21. March 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Boulder City, NV. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to express his condolences for the loss of life and injures from the terror attack in Toulouse on March 21. Upon arrival, he toured the  Copper Mountain Solar 1 facility with John A. Sowers, vice president of operations, and Kevin Gillespie, director of operations, Sempra U.S. Gas and Power LLC. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Maljamar, NM. In the evening, the President traveled to Oklahoma City, OK. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Sheraton Oklahoma City Hotel. The President announced that he has nominated John S. Leonardo to be U.S. attorney for the District of Arizona. The President announced that he has nominated Rainey R. Brandt to be a judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has appointed Michael B. Filler, David J. Holway, and H.T. Nguyen. as members of the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations.  March 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Stillwater, OK. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Columbus, OH, where, at Ohio State University, he toured the Center for Automotive Research and spoke with engineering students. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. In the evening, in the East Room, the President hosted a reception for Greek Independence Day. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, mudslides, and landslides beginning on March 15 and continuing. March 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President had a briefing on his upcoming visit to South Korea. The White House announced that the President will meet with Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani of Pakistan in Seoul, South Korea, on March 27. March 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Seoul, South Korea, arriving the following morning. March 25 In the morning, upon arrival in South Korea, the President traveled the Grand Hyatt Seoul hotel, where he met with his senior advisers. Later, he traveled to Camp Bonifas. While en route, he met with U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Sung Kim. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Observation Post Ouellette, where he received a briefing from Lt. Col. Edward J. Taylor, USA, battalion commander, U.N. Command Security Battalion—Joint Security Area, and Lt. Col. Yoon Bong-hee, South Korean Army, and viewed the Korean demilitarized zone. Later, he returned to the Grand Hyatt Seoul. In the evening, at the Spring House in the Blue House complex, the President had dinner with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea. Later, he returned to the Grand Hyatt Seoul. March 26 In the evening, at the Coex Center, the President attended a welcome ceremony. Later, at the Spring House in the Blue House complex, he participated in a working dinner for Nuclear Security Summit leaders. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Tonga to attend the state funeral of King George Topou V on March 27: Frankie A. Reed (head of delegation); Anthony M. Babauta; and Duane D. Thiessen. The President announced his intention to nominate Brett H. McGurk to be U.S. Ambassador to Iraq. The President announced his intention to nominate Michele J. Sison to be Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives. March 27 In the morning, at the Coex Center, the President attended a plenary session of the Nuclear Security Summit. Later, he participated in the official Nuclear Security Summit heads of delegation photograph. In the afternoon, at the Coex Center, the President attended a Nuclear Security Summit working lunch. He then attended a summit plenary session. During the day, the President met with President Viktor Yanukovych of Ukraine to discuss Ukraine's complete removal of highly enriched uranium from its territory and other nuclear materials security efforts. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate James C. Miller III to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service.  The President announced his intention to nominate Michael P. Huerta to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration at the Department of Transportation.  The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation: Robert J. Grey, Jr.; John G. Levi; Laurie I. Mikva; Martha L. Minnow; and Gloria Valencia-Weber.  March 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, on the White House basketball court, the President taped an interview with Clark Kellogg of CBS Sports The President announced his intention to nominate Yvonne B. Burke to be Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia K. Falcone to be Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs at the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas M. Griffiths to be Ambassador to Mozambique. The President announced his intention to nominate Maria R. Jackson to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Marc H. Morial as a member of the President's Advisory Council on Financial Capability. The President announced his intention to appoint Karyn L. Stockdale as a member of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust. The President announced that he has nominated Patrick A. Miles, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Michigan. The President announced that he has nominated Danny C. Williams, Sr., to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma. The President announced that he has nominated Patrick J. Wilkerson to be a U.S. marshal for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. March 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Burlington, VT. While en route aboard Air Force One, he met with Sen. Patrick J. Leahy. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Portland, ME. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Senegal to attend the inauguration of President-elect Macky Sall on April 2: Daniel W. Yohannes (head of delegation); Lewis Lukens; Johnnie Carson; and Gen. Carter Ham, USA. April 2 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Salva Kiir Mayardit of South Sudan to discuss relations between South Sudan and Sudan, including recent nationality and citizenship agreements and continued violence along their shared border. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the State Dining Room, he hosted a North American Leaders' Summit meeting with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico. In the afternoon, in the Green Room, the President, Prime Minister Harper, and President Calderon had a working lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with his senior advisors. April 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki of Iraq to congratulate the Iraqi people on the success of the Arab Summit held in Baghdad, the role of Iraq and the U.S. in regional security efforts, and his support for continued democracy efforts in Iraq. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with John Capilari, head coach of the University of Kentucky's men's basketball team, to congratulate him on their victory in the 2012 NCAA championship game. April 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Vice President's Office, the President dropped by a meeting between Vice President Biden and President Masoud Barzani of the Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq. Later, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he dropped by a meeting of personal finance and financial news site journalists and editors. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Kim Mulkey, head coach of Baylor University's women's basketball team, to congratulate her on their historic 40–0 season and their victory in the 2012 NCAA championship game. The White House announced that the President will attend the White House Forum on Women and the Economy on April 6. April 5 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. In the evening, in the Family Theater, the President hosted a screening of the film "To Kill a Mockingbird." April 6 In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Seder to mark the beginning of Passover. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boca Raton, FL, on April 10. April 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. April 10 In the morning, the President traveled to Palm Beach Gardens, FL. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boca Raton, FL. In the evening, the President traveled to Hollywood, FL. Then, he traveled to Golden Beach, FL. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. April 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. Later, at the W Washington DC hotel, he attended a campaign event. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Prince Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, Minister of Defense of Saudi Arabia. He also had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situations in Iran and Syria, the upcoming Group of Eight (G–8) summit at Camp David, MD, and Germany-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Tampa, FL, on April 13. The White House announced that the President will welcome 2011 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series champion Tony Stewart and other NASCAR drivers to the White House on April 17. The President announced his intention to nominate Jay N. Anania to be Ambassador to Suriname. The President announced his intention to nominate Gene A. Cretz to be Ambassador to Ghana. The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Marsh Elliott to be Ambassador to Tajikistan. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Lane to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, with the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles P. Rose to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. and Stewart L. Udall Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Carol W. Greider to be a member on the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. April 12 In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Room, the President participated in separate interviews with Colleen Marshall of WCMH in Columbus, OH, Bruce Aune of KCRG in Cedar Rapids, IA, Larry Connors of KMOV in St. Louis, MO, and Pat Hambright of KOLO in Reno, NV. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President had a video teleconference with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to discuss the situations in Iran and Syria and recent volatility in global oil markets. April 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Tampa, FL, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President toured the Port of Tampa. Later, he participated in an interview with Jose Diaz-Balart of Telemundo. He then traveled to Cartagena, Colombia, where, upon arrival, he traveled to the Hilton Cartagena Hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to Castillo San Felipe de Barajas, where he attended a Summit of the Americas leaders' dinner. Later, he returned to the Hilton. The White House announced that the President will welcome 2011 BCS National Champion University of Alabama football team to the White House on April 19. April 14 In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala Convention Center, where he participated in an arrival ceremony for Summit of the Americas leaders. Later, also at the Convention Center, he attended the plenary session of the Summit of the Americas. Then, he returned to the Hilton Cartagena Hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the Casa de Huespedes Ilustres, where he attended a Summit of the Americas leaders' dinner. Later, he returned to the Hilton Cartagena Hotel. April 15 In the morning, the President traveled to the Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala Convention Center, where he participated in a photo opportunity and retreat with Summit of the Americas leaders. In the afternoon, at the Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala Convention Center, the President met with Caribbean leaders. He then traveled to the Casa de Huespedes Ilustres, where he met with President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia, followed by a working lunch. Later, he and President Santos toured the Church of San Pedro Claver. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. April 16 The White House announced that the President will travel to Elyria, OH, on April 18. The White House announced that the President will award a Congressional Medal of Honor on May 16. The President announced his intention to nominate Vicki Miles-LaGrange, Ingrid A. Gregg, and James L. Henderson to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint James W. Willis as a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. April 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda of Japan to the White House on April 30. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the U.S. Memorial Holocaust Museum on April 23. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Benton, Christie Pearson Brandau, and Norberto J. Castro to be members of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to nominate William B. Schultz to be General Counsel at the Department of Health and Human Services. April 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Elyria, OH, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at Lorain County Community College, the President held a roundtable discussion with David Palmer, Bronson Harwood, Duane Sutton, and Andrea Ashley, unemployed workers enrolled in job training programs. Later, he traveled to Dearborn, MI. In the evening, the President traveled to Bingham Farms, MI. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Hawaii and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and landslides from March 3 through 11. April 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. Later, at the W Washington DC hotel, he attended a campaign event. April 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President was briefed by U.S. Secret Service Director Mark J. Sullivan on the ongoing investigation into allegations of misconduct by Secret Service personnel in Cartagena, Colombia, on April 11 and 12. The White House released further details on the President's delivery of remarks at the U.S. Memorial Holocaust Museum on April 23. The White House announced that the President will honor the 2012 National Teacher of the Year and finalists on April 24. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chapel Hill, NC, and Boulder, CO, on April 24, and to Iowa City, IA, on April 25. April 21 The White House announced that the President will travel to Iowa City, IA, on April 25. April 23 In the morning, the President toured exhibits at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. April 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Chapel Hill, NC. In the afternoon, at the University of North Carolina, the President participated in an interview with Jimmy Fallon of NBC's"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon." Later, he traveled to Boulder, CO. In the evening, at The Sink restaurant and bar, the President met with patrons. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Hinesville, GA, on April 27. April 25 In the morning, the President traveled to Iowa City, IA. In the afternoon, in the Iowa Memorial Union at the University of Iowa, the President participated in a roundtable discussion with students. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, at the Jefferson hotel, the President attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. The President announced that he has nominated Terrence G. Berg to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The President announced that he has nominated Jesus G. Bernal to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Shelly Deckert Dick to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. The President announced that he has nominated Lorna G. Schofield to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Charles R. Breyer to be a Commissioner on the U.S. Sentencing Commission. April 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room and the Situation Room, he participated in an interview with Brian Williams of NBC's"The Nightly News with Brian Williams." Later, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden. During the day, in the East Room, the President met with the 2012 spring White House interns. The President announced his intention to nominate Tim Broas to be Ambassador to the Netherlands. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard L. Morningstar to be Ambassador to Azerbaijan. The President announced his intention to nominate Sean Sullivan to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy Hellman Bechtle to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust. The President announced his intention to appoint Reginald Dwayne Betts to be a member of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. The President announced his intention to appoint Patricia G. Smith to be a member of the Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum. April 27 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Hinesville, GA. Later, they toured the Fort Stewart Warriors Walk. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has appointed Jodi Gillette as a Senior Policy Adviser for Native American Affairs for the White House Domestic Policy Council. April 29 In the afternoon, the President traveled to McLean, VA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. April 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda of Japan. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Prime Minister Noda had a working lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Australia to attend ceremonies commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea from May 3 through 5: Janet A. Napolitano (head of delegation); Jeffrey L. Bleich; and Scott H. Swift. May 1 In the morning, the President traveled to Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had an intelligence briefing. Later in the evening, the President traveled to Kabul, Afghanistan, where, at the Presidential Palace, he met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Columbus, OH, and Richmond, VA, on May 5. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012 NCAA champion University of Kentucky men's basketball team to the White House on May 4. May 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan, where he met with U.S. military personnel and presented Purple Hearts to 10 servicemembers. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to express his condolences on the death of the Prime Minister's father, Benzion Netanyahu. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Later, at the W Washington DC hotel, he attended two campaign events. The White House announced that the President will travel to Arlington, VA, on May 4. May 3 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President has invited President Thomas Yayi Boni of Benin, President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana, President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete of Tanzania, and Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia to attend a discussion at the Group of Eight (G–8) summit at Camp David, MD, on May 19. May 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Arlington, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Albany, NY, on May 8. May 5 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Columbus, OH. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Richmond, VA.  In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. May 6 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Francois Hollande of France to congratulate him on his election victory. May 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with 2010 Enrico Fermi Award recipients Burton Richter and Mildred S. Dresselhaus and their spouses. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with outgoing President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to thank him for his leadership, friendship, and contribution to France-U.S. relations. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he dropped by a meeting with representatives from organizations concerned about vacancies in Federal courts. Then, in the Oval Office, he participated in a conference call with Governors, mayors, and student government leaders from across the country to discuss student loan interest rates. The White House announced that the President will welcome Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the White House on May 9. May 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Albany, NY. In the afternoon, at the University at Albany, the President toured the NanoTech Complex with Governor Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and Christopher Borst, associate vice president for G450C technical operations, University at Albany. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Kristine L. Svinicki to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Lopez De Leon and Emil J. Kang to be members of the National Council on the Arts. May 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to discuss the commemoration of Victory in Europe Day and Russia-U.S. relations. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Cabinet Room, the President participated in an interview with Robin Roberts of ABC's"Good Morning America" program. The White House announced that the President will welcome the National Association of Police Organizations TOP COPS awardees to the Whiste House on May 12. The White House announced that the President will award the Congressional Medal of Honor posthumously to Specialist Leslie H. Sabo, Jr., USA, on May 16. The White House announced that the President will travel to Reno, NV, on May 11. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah Malac to be Ambassador to Liberia. The President announced his intention to nominate Tommy Sowers to be Assistant Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Fernando Torres-Gil to be a member of the National Council on Disability. The President announced his intention to appoint Lothar von Falkenhausen to be a member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint Mark F. Heinrich and Anil Lewis to be members of the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. May 10 In the morning, the President traveled to Seattle, WA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Studio City, CA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to the Beverly Hilton hotel in Beverly Hills, CA. The White House announced that the President will welcome Major League Soccer champion LA Galaxy to the White House on May 15. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City to deliver the commencement address at Barnard College on May 14. The President announced his intention to appoint Caitlin Durkovich as Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Ellen M. Peel and Russell F. Smith III as U.S. Commissioners to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas. May 11 In the morning, the President traveled to Reno, NV. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas H. Armbruster to be Ambassador to the Marshall Islands. The President announced his intention to nominate David B. Wharton to be Ambassador to Zimbabwe. The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Shaw to be a member of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. May 14 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, at the studios of ABC television, the President participated in an interview with Barbara Walters, Whoopi Goldberg, Joy Behar, Sherri Shepherd, and Elisabeth Hasselbeck of ABC's"The View" program. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. The President announced that he has nominated Frank P. Geraci, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Fernando M. Olguin to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. May 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to discuss the security transition in Afghanistan and the economic situation in Europe. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met separately with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. Later, in the Cabinet Room, they met with combatant commanders. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a dinner for combatant commanders and their spouses. May 16 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had a working lunch with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, and Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President made additional disaster assistance available to Vermont by authorizing an increase in the level of Federal funding for public assistance projects undertaken as a result of Tropical Storm Irene from August 27 through September 2, 2011. May 17 The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Chicago, IL, on May 19 to host the NATO summit. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Dili, Timor-Leste, to attend the inauguration of President Taur Matan Ruak from May 19 through 20: Judith R. Fergin (head of delegation); and Nisha D. Biswal. The President announced his intention to nominate Derek J. Mitchell to be Ambassador to Burma. The President announced his intention to appoint Anhlan P. Nguyen and Quyen N. Vuong as members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation. The President announced that he has nominated Gary Blankinship to be U.S marshal for the Southern District of Texas. The President announced that he has nominated Matthew W. Brann and Malachy E. Mannion to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. May 18 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD, to attend the Group of Eight (G–8) summit, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President hosted a reception for G–8 leaders. Later, he hosted a working dinner for the leaders. The White House announced that the President will travel to Joplin, MO, on May 21. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph B. Donovan to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences. The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce R. Sievers to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to appoint Miaohong Hsiangju Liu and Barbara Williams-Skinner as members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. May 19 In the morning, on the grounds of the Aspen Lodge, the President participated in a photo opportunity with Group of Eight (G–8) leaders. Then, in the Aspen Lodge, he met with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. Later, on the Laurel Lodge patio, he met with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Then, in the Laurel Lodge, he attended a working session with G–8 leaders. In the afternoon, in the Laurel Lodge, the President hosted a working lunch on food safety. He then attended three more working sessions. In the evening, the President again met with Chancellor Merkel of Germany. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. May 20 In the afternoon, at the McCormick Place convention center, the President participated in a welcoming ceremony for North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders, followed by separate photo opportunities with each of the leaders. In the evening, at Soldier Field, the President participated in a photo opportunity with North Atlantic Treaty Organization members, followed by a NATO working dinner. May 21 In the morning, at the McCormick Place convention center, the President met with President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan. In the afternoon, at the McCormick Place convention center, the President met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and President Zardari of Pakistan. Later, he participated in a photo opportunity with International Security Assistance Force members. He then attended a meeting with NATO partners. In the evening, the President traveled to Joplin, MO. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Colorado Springs, CO, on May 23. The President announced that he has nominated Thomas M. Durkin to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. May 22 The White House announced that the President will travel to Newton, IA, on May 24. The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medals of Freedom on May 29. May 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Colorado Springs, CO. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Denver, CO. Later, he traveled to Atherton, CA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to Redwood City, CA. He then traveled to San Jose, CA. The President announced his intention to nominate Jonathan Lippman to be a member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute. The President announced his intention to appoint John F. Sopko as the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction. May 24 In the morning, at the Fairmont Hotel, the President attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to Newton, IA. In the afternoon, at TPI Composites Inc., the President toured the facility. Later, he traveled to Des Moines, IA. Later, also at TPI Composites Inc., he participated in a question-and-answer session with Twitter users. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 14 through 15. The President announced his intention to nominate Greta C. Holtz to be Ambassador to Oman. The President announced his intention to nominate Alexander M. Laskaris to be Ambassador to Guinea. The President announced his intention to nominate Allison M. Macfarlane to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and, upon appointment, to designate her as Chair. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcie B. Ries to be Ambassador to Bulgaria. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter M. Shaub, Jr., to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics. The President announced his intention to appoint Fred P. Hochberg as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Earl W. Stafford as a member of the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. May 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Benigno Aquino III of the Philippines to the White House on June 8. May 28 In the morning, in the Blue Room, the President, Mrs. Obama, Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta, Secretary of the Navy Raymond E. Mabus, and Vice Chief of Naval Operations Vice Adm. Mark E. Ferguson III, USN, greeted the first contingent of women submariners to be assigned to the Navy's operational submarine force. Then, in the State Dining Room, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a breakfast in honor of Gold Star families. Later, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a Memorial Day wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. May 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, in the Blue Room, he met with Presidential Medal of Freedom recipient Toni Morrison. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The White House announced that the President will travel to Golden Valley, MN, on June 1. May 30 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President participated in a videoconference with President Francois Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to discuss the economic situation in Europe, the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Mexico, and the situation in Syria. Then, also in the Situation Room, he attended the annual hurricane preparedness briefing. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will welcome former President George W. Bush and former First Lady Laura Bush to the White House on May 31 for the official unveiling of their portraits. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Apia, Samoa, to attend the 50th anniversary of independence on June 1: David Huebner (head of delegation); Eni F.H. Faleomavaega; James L. Loi; and Cecil D. Haney. May 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Red Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a lunch for former President George W. Bush, former First Lady Laura Bush, former President George H.W. Bush, former First Lady Barbara Bush, and other members of the Bush family. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. June 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Rep. Steven R. Rothman. Then he traveled to Golden Valley, MN, where, upon arrival, he toured the Honeywell manufacturing facility. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Minneapolis, MN, where he attended campaign events at the Bachelor Farmer restaurant. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL. June 2 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. June 3 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President hosted a reception for Ford's Theatre. June 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner, Deputy National Security Adviser for International and Economic Affairs Michael Froman, and Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs Lael Brainard. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Danilo Medina Sanchez of the Dominican Republic to congratulate him on his election victory and discuss Dominican Republic-U.S. relations. Later, he traveled to New York City. In the evening, at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, the President and former President William J. Clinton met with Francisco Maldonado of Chicago, IL, Rachel Klick of Falls Church, VA, and Joe Ardito of Estes Park, CO, winners of a contest held by his reelection campaign. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, on June 7. June 5 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the economic situation in Europe, preparations for the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Los Cabos, Mexico, and the June 1 rescue by British and U.S. special forces of four aid workers held captive in Afghanistan. He also conveyed his congratulations to Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom on the occasion of her Diamond Jubilee. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome the Super Bowl XLVI champion New York Giants to the White House on June 8. June 6 In the morning, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to discuss the economic situation in Europe and preparations for the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Los Cabos, Mexico. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to Beverly Hills, CA. The President announced his intention to nominate Mignon L. Clyburn to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen Crawford to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service. The President announced his intention to nominate John M. Koenig to be Ambassador to Cyprus. The President announced his intention to appoint Patrick Gaynor as a member of the Medal of Valor Review Board. June 7 In the morning, the President traveled to View Park, CA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. June 8 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Francois Hollande of France to discuss the economic situation in Europe, preparations for the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Los Cabos, Mexico, and the situation in Syria. Later, at the Jefferson hotel, he attended an Obama Victory Fund 2012 fundraiser. June 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he participated in separate television interviews with Don Ward of KKTV in Colorado Springs, CO, Hollani Davis of WDBJ in Roanoke, VA, Kristen Remington of KTVN in Reno, NV, Matthew Breen of KTIV in Sioux City, IA, Matt Smith of WBAY in Green Bay, WI, Michael Cogdill of WYFF in Greenville, SC, Tom Wills of WJXT in Jacksonville, FL, and Warren Armstrong of KFSN in Fresno, CA. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with representatives of Big Brothers Big Sisters of America. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with entertainer Betty M. White. The President announced that he has nominated Caitlin J. Halligan and Srikanth Srinivasan to be judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The President announced that he has nominated Kimberly S. Knowles to be a judge on the Superior Court for the District of District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Jon S. Tigar and William H. Orrick III to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. June 12 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Secretary of Commerce John E. Bryson to discuss Secretary Bryson's health. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Then, h traveled to Owings Mills, MD, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado to express his condolences on the loss of life due to the High Park wildfire and to discuss Federal assistance for recovery efforts. Then, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to New York City on June 14. June 13 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a bilateral meeting with President Shimon Peres of Israel. Later, at the W Washington DC hotel, the President attended a campaign event. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Herman Van Rompuy of the European Council and President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico to discuss the economic situation in Europe and preparations for the upcoming G–20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico. June 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Oval Office, he had separate telephone conversations with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to discuss the global economy and the upcoming G–20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico. Later, he traveled to Cleveland, OH, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President visited the Broadway Boys & Girls Club of Cleveland, where he visited with the children. Then, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to New York City, where they toured the World Trade Center construction site with Govs. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City and signed a ceremonial steel beam. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark D. Gearan to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael Kirby to be Ambassador to Serbia. The President announced his intention to appoint David Benton as a member of the Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Paula Robinson Collins to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from April 28 through May 1. June 15 In the afternoon, at the LINCOLN Restaurant, the President had lunch with Janet Jones of Akkokeek, MD, Jim Heath of Aurora, OH, Paula Matyas of Milford, MI, and Wyndi Austin of Gilbert, AZ, winners of a contest held by his 2012 election campaign. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson traveled to Chicago, IL. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm and flooding from May 29 through May 31. June 17 In the evening, the President traveled to Los Cabos, Mexico, where, upon arrival, he traveled to the Esperanza Resort in Cabo San Lucas. June 18 In the morning, at the Esperanza Resort in Cabo San Lucas, the President met with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Los Cabos International Convention Center in San Jose del Cabo, where he participated in an official arrival ceremony with President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico. Then, he attended a Group of Twenty (G–20) plenary session. In the evening, the President participated in an official photo with G–20 leaders. Then, he participated in a working dinner with G–20 leaders. Later, he returned to the Esperanza Resort in Cabo San Lucas. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando, FL, on June 22. June 19 In the morning, the President traveled to the Los Cabos International Convention Center in San Jose del Cabo, where he participated in two Group of Twenty (G–20) plenary sessions. In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situations in Syria and Iraq, Turkey-U.S. counterterrorism operations, and the upcoming Framework for Strategic Economic and Commercial Cooperation meeting in Ankara, Turkey. Then, he participated in a working lunch with G–20 leaders. Later, he attended the closing ceremony of the G–20 summit. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Saudi Arabia to offer condolences to King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud on the death of Crown Prince Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud on June 20: Leon E. Panetta (head of delegation); James B. Smith; John O. Brennan; Robert S. Mueller III; A. Elizabeth Jones; George J. Tenet; and Frances Fragos Townsend. June 20 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to offer his condolences on the death of Crown Prince Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud and congratulate him on the selection of Prince Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud as Crown Prince. The President announced his intention to nominate David Masumoto to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Polly Trottenberg to be Under Secretary for Policy at the Department of Transportation. June 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. Later, he dropped by a meeting between National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Vice Prime Minister Shaul Mofaz of Israel. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Commerce John E. Bryson to discuss his resignation and thank him for his service. June 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Orlando, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Tampa, FL. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Miami Heat head coach Erik Spoelstra to congratulate him on his team's victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder in the 2012 NBA Finals. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the 2012 Olympic Games in London, England, on June 23: Michelle Obama (head of delegation); Louis B. Susman; Brandi Chastain; Dominique M. Dawes; Gabriel Diaz de Leon; Grant E. Hill; and Summer Sanders. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm, tornado, and flooding on May 29. June 24 In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to congratulate him on his election victory and to discuss Egypt-U.S. relations. He also had a telephone conversation with Egyptian Presidential candidate Gen. Ahmed Shafiq to commend him for his campaign efforts and encourage him to continue to play a role in Egyptian politics. June 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras of Greece to congratulate him on his election, express his support for Greece, and wish him a speedy recovery following his recent surgery. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Durham, NH. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to discuss the recent G–20 summit and economic stabilization efforts in Europe. Later, at the University of New Hampshire Dairy Bar, he stopped for ice cream and visited with patrons. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Boston, MA. Later, at the Hamersley's Bistro restaurant, he attended a campaign event. In the evening, the President traveled to Weston, MA. Later, he returned to Boston, MA. The President announced that he has nominated Sheri P. Chappell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Katherine P. Failla to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Troy L. Nunley to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California. June 26 In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. While en route aboard Air Force Once, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. Richard L. Scott of Florida to express his condolences for the loss of life and damage to property as a result of the Tropical Storm Debby and to reiterate that the Federal Government stood ready to provide additional assistance if necessary. In the afternoon, the President visited The Varsity diner, where he had lunch and greeted students from the Lenora Academy in Snellville, GA. Later, he traveled to Miami, FL. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. June 27 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Francois Hollande of France to discuss the economic situation in Europe. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi. Then, he traveled to The Jefferson hotel where he attended a campaign event. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado and Mayor Steve Bach of Colorado Springs, CO, to discuss the damaging wild fires affecting the area and Federal and State assistance efforts. The White House announced that the President will address the 2012 National Urban League Conference in New Orleans, LA, on July 25. June 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden.had lunch. Later, he traveled to the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, where he visited with wounded U.S. military personnel and presented a Purple Heart medal to a servicemember. He then returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., to congratulate him on the health care law decision. The President announced his intention to nominate Camila A. Alire and Ramon Saldivar to be members of the National Council on the Humanities. The White House announced that the President will travel to Colorado Springs, CO, on June 29. June 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Colorado Springs, CO. Upon arrival, he toured damage caused by the wildfires. Then, at an American Red Cross evacuation shelter at the Southeast Family Center & Armed Services YMCA, he met with staff members and volunteers. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Stephanie Decker, who lost her legs while saving her childern Dominic and Reese during a tornado in southern Indiania on March 2, and her husband Joe Decker. The President declared a major disaster in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area struck by wildfires beginning on June 9 and continuing. June 30 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, Gov. Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia, Gov. Martin J. O'Malley of Maryland, Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin of West Virginia, and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate to discuss damage and recovery efforts related to the severe storms that impacted the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions on June 29. The President declared an emergency in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from severe storms beginning on June 29 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from severe storms beginning on June 29 and continuing. July 2 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto of Mexico to congratulate him on his electoral victory and discuss Mexico-U.S. relations. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Yeosu, South Korea, to attend the U.S. National Day celebration at the Yeosu Expo 2012 on July 4: Jane Lubchenco (head of delegation); Sung Kim; Wendy S. Cutler; Adam Ereli; and Daniel Dae Kim. July 3 The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at a naturalization ceremony for active duty servicemembers at the White House on July 4. The White House announced that the President will travel to Ohio on July 5. The White House announced that the President will travel to Pennsylvania on July 6. The White House announced that the President will hold a signing ceremony for transportation and student loan rate legislation at the White House on July 6. The President declared an emergency in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by Tropic Storm Debbie on June 23 and continuing. July 4 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 5 In the morning, the President traveled to Toledo, OH, were he met with Alan "Jeff" Armes and his wife Cheri, winners of a contest held by his 2012 election campaign. Then, he traveled to Maumee, OH, where he began a 2-day bus tour. Later, he participated in separate television interviews with Tracy Townsend of WBNS in Columbus, OH, Jim Otte of WHIO in Dayton, OH, and Sheree Paolello of WLWT in Cincinnati, OH. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Sandusky, OH. While en route, he stopped at Kozy Corners restaurant in Oak Harbor, OH, where he ordered food and met with patrons. Later, also while en route, he stopped at the Bergman Orchards Farm Market in Port Clinton, OH, where he bought local produce and met with patrons. Later in the afternoon, the President participated in separate television interviews with Colleen Marshall of WCMH in Columbus, OH, Mark Allan of WDTN in Dayton, OH, and Clyde Gray of WCPO in Cincinnati, OH. He then traveled to Parma, OH, arriving in the evening. While en route, he stopped at Ziggy's Pub and Restaurant in Amhest, OH, where he met with patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to the Hilton Akron/Fairlawn hotel in Akron, OH. The President announced his intention to appoint Tim Carlson as U.S. Representative on the Governing Board of the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency. The President announced his intention to appoint Richard Ginman as Chair of the Government Accountability and Transparency Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Maj. Gen. Don Loranger, USAF (Ret.), as a member of the National Security Education Board. July 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Boardman, OH, where he toured the facilities of Summer Garden Food Manufacturing and met with employees. While en route, he stopped at Ann's Place restaurant in Akron, OH, where he ordered breakfast and met with patrons. Later, he traveled to Poland, OH. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA. While en route, he stopped at Kretchman's Bakery in Beaver, OH, where he purchased food and met with patrons. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Wilma Parsons, daughter of Ann's Place owner Josephine "Ann" Harris, who died shortly after the President's morning visit to her restaurant. In the evening, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cedar Rapids, IA, on July 10. The President declared an emergency in Minnesota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from June 14 through 21. July 8 In the morning, the President returned to the Washington, DC. July 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President participated in separate interviews with Karen Swensen of WWL in New Orleans, LA, Josh McElveen of WMUR in Manchester, NH, Vicki Dortch of WLKY in Louisville, KY, Oscar Haza of WJAN of Miami, FL, Debra Morgan of WRAL in Raleigh, NC, Gary Metivier of KWQC of Davenport, IA, Kent Wainscott of WISN of Milwaukee, WI, and Jim Snyder of KSNV of Las Vegas, NV, all of which were taped for later broadcast. Later in the afternoon, at the Mandarin Oriental hotel, the President attended two campaign events. In the evening, the President returned to the White House. July 10 In the morning, the President traveled to Cedar Rapids, IA. Upon arrival, he participated in a roundtable discussion with Jason and Ali McLaughlin at their residence. In the afternoon, in the Michael J. Gould Recreation Center at Kirkwood Community College, the President participated in a roundtable interview with local newspaper reporters Mike Ferguson of the Muscatine Journal, Doug Melvold of the Maquoketa Sentinel-Press, Christinia Crippes of the The Hawk Eye, Giles Bruce of the Charles City Press, and David Alexander of the Times-Republican. Later in the afternoon, the President stopped at Deb's Ice Cream and Deli, where he ate ice cream and greeted patrons. He then returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Roanoke, VA, and Hampton, VA, on July 13. The White House announced that the President will travel to Glen Allen, VA, on July 14. The President announced his intention to nominate Dorothy Kosinski as a member of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate Dawn M. Liberi to be Ambassador to Burundi. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen D. Mull to be Ambassador to Poland. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter North to be Ambassador to Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu. July 11 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with  Democratic congressional leadership. The White House announced that the President will travel to Norfolk, VA, on July 13. The White House announced that the President will travel to Sterling, VA, on July 14. July 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Blue Room, he and Mrs. Obama participated in an interview with Charlie Rose for "CBS Sunday Morning," which was taped for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cincinnati, OH, on July 16. The President announced that he has nominated Angela T. Dickinson to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Missouri. The President announced that he has nominated Mark A. Barnett to be a judge on the U.S. Court of International Trade. July 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Virginia Beach, VA. Then he stopped at Rick's Cafe and met with military spouses Jennifer Farlin , Amber Herbert and Cari Beauregard. In the afternoon, in a classroom at Green Run High School, the President participated in separate interviews with Scott Thuman of WJLA in Washington, DC, and Kim Genardo of WNCN in Raleigh, NC. Then he traveled to Hampton, VA, where, at Veterans of Foreign Wars Hall 3219, he spoke with members. In the evening, the President traveled to Roanoke, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Austin, TX, and San Antonio, TX, on July 17. July 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Glen Allen, VA. While en route, he visited Berry's Produce stand in Mechanicsville, VA. In the afternoon, at the Walkerton Tavern and Gardens in Glen Allen, he participated in a television interview with Andy Fox of WAVY in Portsmouth, VA, and separate radio interviews with Clovia Lawrence of WKJS in Richmond, VA, and Dominique "Da Diva" and Anguz Black of WOWI in Norfolk, VA. He then traveled to Clifton, VA. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH, where, upon arrival, he had lunch at Skyline Chili and met with patrons. In the afternoon, at Music Hall, the President attended a campaign event. Later, also at Music Hall, he participated in separate television interviews with Dana Jay of WSYX in Columbus, OH, John Kosich of WEWS in Cleveland, OH, and Rob Wiercinski of WTOL in Toledo, OH. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. In the evening, at the Verizon Center, the President, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Joe Biden attended the U.S. men's 2012 Olympic basketball team's exhibition game against Brazil. Prior to the game, he greeted members of the U.S. women's Olympic basketball team. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2012 NCAA women's basketball champion Baylor Bears to the White House on July 18. July 17 In the morning, the President traveled to San Antonio, TX. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Austin, TX. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Jacksonville and West Palm Beach, FL, on July 19. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando, FL, on July 20. The President announced his intention to nominate Bidtah N. Becker to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development. The President announced his intention to nominate James B. Cunningham to be Ambassador to Afghanistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard G. Olson to be Ambassador to Pakistan. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President’s Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities: Peter H. Bell; Jack M. Brandt; Micki Edelsonhn; Ann Hardiman; Alison A. Hillman de Velasquez; Carl M. La Mell; Julie A. Petty; Lauren Potter; Lillian Sugarman; Carol Wheeler; and Sheryl White-Scott. July 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack to discuss the Federal Government's efforts to respond to the drought. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they had separate meetings with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. Then, at the Mandarin Oriental hotel, he attended a campaign event. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to express condolences on the terrorist attack on Israeli tourists in Bulgaria and offer U.S. assistance. He also had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in Syria and to express condolences on the loss of life from the flooding in southern Russia and offer U.S. assistance. The White House announced that the President will travel to Fort Myers, FL, on July 20. July 19 In the morning, the President traveled to Jacksonville, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at the Prime F. Osborn III Convention Center, the President participated in a television interview with Andy Alcock of WCTV in Tallahassee, FL, and separate radio interviews with Enrique Santos of WRTO in Miami, FL, and Jayde Donovan of WPOI in Tampa, FL. Later, also at the Prime Osborn Convention Center, he attended a campaign event. He then traveled to West Palm Beach, FL. In the evening, at the Century Village retirement community, the President attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to the Ritz-Carlton, Palm Beach hotel in Manalapan, FL. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and straight-line winds on June 30. July 20 In the morning, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan notified the President of the shootings in Aurora, CO. Later, he traveled to Fort Myers, FL. While en route to Palm Beach International Airport for his flight to Fort Myers, he was briefed on the shootings by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III, White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Brennan and had a telephone conversation with Mayor Steve Hogan of Aurora to discuss the shootings. Later in the morning, while en route to Fort Myers aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Boyko Borissov of Bulgaria to discuss the terrorist attack on Israeli tourists in Bulgaria. Upon arrival in Fort Myers, while en route to the Harborside Event Center, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado to discuss the shootings in Aurora. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden were briefed on the shootings by FBI Director Mueller, Chief of Staff Lew, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Brennan, Deputy Attorney General James Cole, White House Counsel Kathryn Ruemmler, and White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Police Chief Daniel J. Oates of Aurora to discuss the shootings. July 21 The White House announced that the President will travel to Reno, NV, and Oakland, CA, on July 23. The White House announced that the President will travel to Portland, OR, and Seattle, WA, on July 24. July 22 In the morning, the President met with his national security team to discuss the situation in Syria. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Aurora, CO, where at the University of Colorado Hospital, he met with those wounded and the families of victims killed in the July 20 shootings at the Century 16 multiplex in Aurora. In the evening, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA. Upon arrival, he traveled to the InterContinental San Francisco hotel. The White House announced further details on the President's visits to San Francisco, CA, Reno, NV, and Oakland, CA, from July 22 through 23. July 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Reno, NV, arriving in the afternoon. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Oakland, CA, where, at the Oakland Scottish Rite Center, he attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to Piedmont, CA. In the evening, the President traveled to Oakland, CA. Later, he traveled to the InterContinental San Francisco hotel in San Francisco, CA. The White House announced that the President will travel to New Orleans, LA, on July 25. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and straight-line winds from June 29 through July 1. July 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Portland, OR. Upon arrival, he stopped at the Gateway Breakfast House, where he visited with patrons and participated in a roundtable discussion with veterans Dean Dilley, USA, and Mark Peterson, USAF, of Portland, OR, and Thomas Foeller, USN, of Oak Grove, OR. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Oregon Convention Center, where he attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to Seattle, WA. In the evening, the President traveled to Hunts Point, WA, where, at a private residence, he attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to the Hilton Bellevue hotel in Bellevue, WA. The President announced his intention to nominate Ranee Ramaswamy to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council: Tom A. Bernstein; Amy Friedkin; Susan E. Lowenberg; Deborah A. Oppenheimer; Cheryl Peisach; Richard S. Price; and Elliot J. Schrage. July 25 In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, at a private residence, the President attended a campaign event. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on U.K.-U.S. security cooperation during the 2012 Olympic Games in London, England. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a signing ceremony for an Executive order establishing the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for African Americans. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric J. Jolly and Susana Torruella Leval to be members of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Nani A. Coloretti and Greg Friedman as members of the Government Accountability and Transparency Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Freeman A. Hrabowski III as Chair of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans. The President announced his intention to appoint Maria T. Nagorski and Steven E. Snow as members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on July 30. July 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met separately with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Ryan C. Crocker and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, at the Jefferson hotel, the President attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to McLean, VA, where, at a private residence, he attended a campaign event. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and straight-line winds from June 29 through July 1. July 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. He then traveled to New York City. Later, at the NoMad Hotel, he met with Trevor Smith of Queens, NY, winner of a contest held by his 2012 election campaign. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the situation in Syria. Prime Minister Erdogan expressed his condolences for the victims of the Aurora, CO, shootings of July 20. The President also had a telephone conversation with Ernestina Naadu Mills to offer his condolences on the death of her husband, President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana, on July 24. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando, FL, and Leesburg, VA, on August 2. July 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to discuss the economic stabilization efforts in Europe and the situation in Syria. In the evening, the President sent a tweet to U.S. men's 2012 Olympic swimming team member Michael F. Phelps to congratulate him on winning his record-setting 19th Olympic medal at the 2012 Olympic Games in London, England. August 1 In the morning, the President traveled to Mansfield, OH. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Gabby Douglas, McKayla Maroney, Aly Raisman, Kyla Ross, and Jordyn Wieber, members of the U.S. women's gymnastics team, to congratulate them on their gold medal victory at the 2012 Olympic Games in London, United Kingdom. He also had a telephone conversation with President Francois Hollande of France to discuss the economic stabilization efforts in Europe and the situation in Syria. In the afternoon, the President stopped at the Squirrel's Den shop, where he purchased chocolate and visited with employees. He then traveled to Akron, OH. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with U.S. men's 2012 Olympic swimming team member Michael F. Phelps to congratulate him on winning his record-setting 19th Olympic medal. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric K. Fanning to be Under Secretary of the Air Force at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher J. Meade to be General Counsel at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Mielke and Arthur H. Sulzer to be members of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Iqbal Paroo to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Hill Harper as a member of the President's Cancer Panel. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement District and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms from June 29 through July 1. August 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Winter Park, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, en route to Rollins College, the President stopped at Lechonera El Barrio restaurant, where he purchased lunch and visited with patrons. Later, he traveled to Leesburg, VA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Kingston, Jamaica, to attend a celebration marking the 50th anniversary of Jamaica's independence on August 6: Colin L. Powell (head of delegation); Pamela E. Bridgewater; and Yvette D. Clarke. The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin K. Washburn to be Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Jenny R. Yang to be a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Pamela Ki Mai Chen to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The President declared a major disaster in Montana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a wildfire from June 25 through July 10. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and straight-line winds from June 29 through July 8. The President declared a major disaster in Wisconsin and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from June 19 through 20. August 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President had a meeting with U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan James B. Cuningham. The White House announced that the President will travel to Connecticut on August 6. August 4 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. August 5 In the afternoon, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan notified the President of the shootings in Oak Creek, WI.  Later, he was briefed on the shootings via conference call by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III, White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan. He then had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Scott K. Walker of Wisconsin; Mayor Stephen Scaffidi of Oak Creek, WI; and Charanjeet Singh, trustee of the Sikh Temple in Oak Creek, to express his condolences on the loss of life and injuries caused by the shootings.  Later, in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. August 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy Brey of Spain to discuss the economic situation in Europe, the economic stabilization efforts in Spain, and the situation in Syria and Sudan. Later, in the afternoon, he traveled to Stamford, CT. In the evening, the President traveled to Westport, CT. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to both Denver and Grand Junction, CO on August 8. The White House announced that the President will travel to Colorado Springs, CO on August 9. August 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. Later, at the W Washington DC hotel, he attended two campaign events. The White House announced that the President will travel to Pueblo, CO on August 8. The President announced his intention to appoint Charles J. Vorosmarty and Warren M. Zapol as members of the Arctic Research Commission. August 8 In the morning,, the President traveled to Denver, CO. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India to express his condolences for the victims of the August 5 shootings in Oak Creek, WI.  In the afternoon, at the Auraria Events Center, University of Colorado-Denver, the President participated in a  roundable interview with Dottie Lamm of the Denver Post of Denver, CO, and Megan Graham of the Durango Herald of Durango, CO. He then traveled to Grand Junction, CO. Later, he traveled to Pueblo, CO. August 9 In the morning, the President stopped at Romero's Cafe and Catering restaurant in Pueblo, CO, where he had breakfast and visited with patrons. Later, he participated in a roundtable interview with journalists from the La Junta Tribune Democrat of La Junta, CO, the Lamar Ledger of Lamar, CO and the Huerfano Journal of Walsenburg, CO. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Colorado Springs, CO. Then, he visited the U.S. Olympic Training Center facility, and met with several resident paralympic athletes. Later, in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the closing ceremony of the 2012 Olympic games in London, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, on August 12: Susan E. Rice (head of delegation); Louis B. Susman; Benjamin Rhodes; Michelle Kwan; Reginald Love; and Curtis Pride. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Ghana, to attend the funeral of President of Ghana John Evans Atta Mills on August 10: Hillary Rodham Clinton (head of delegation); Donald G. Teitelbaum;  Johnnie Carson; Gen. Carter F. Ham, USA; and Grant T. Harris. White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL on August 11. August 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will visit Council Bluffs, IA on August 13. August 11 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. Upon arrival, he traveled to Obama for America headquarters at Prudential Plaza, where he attended a meeting with his reelection campaign staff. In the evening, the President traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. August 12 In the morning, the President traveled to the Sheraton Chicago Hotel & Towers, where he attended an Obama Victory 2012 fundraiser. In the afternoon, the President returned to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to congratulate him and the United Kingdom on a successful Olympic Games, commend the performance of U.K. Olympic athletes, and thank him for hosting U.S. athletes, fans, and the official delegation headed by Mrs. Obama. In the evening, the President traveled to a private residence, where he attended a campaign event. Later, he returned to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. August 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Omaha, NE. Then, he traveled to Council Bluffs, IA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Missouri Valley, IA, where he toured the farm of Dean, Don, Richard, and Roger McIntosh accompanied by Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack. He then traveled to Boone, IA. While en route, he stopped at the Tropical Sno shop in Denison, IA, where he purchased snow cones and visited with patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to Iowa State Fairgrounds in Des Moines, IA, where he and Secretary Vilsack visited with patrons and staff.  August 14 In the morning, en route to Oskaloosa, IA, the President stopped at Coffee Connection in Knoxville, IA, where he purchased breakfast items and greeted patrons. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Haverhill, IA, where he toured the Heil family farm wind turbine array accompanied by owner Jeff Heil and his father Richard. Later, he traveled to Marshalltown, IA. In the evening, the President traveled to Waterloo, IA. While en route, he stopped at the Pump Haus pub in Cedar Falls, IA, where he ordered a beer and visited with patrons and staff. Later, he traveled to the Cedar Rapids Marriott hotel in Cedar Rapids, IA. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the inauguration of Danilo Medina Sanchez as President of the Dominican Republic on August 16: Raul H. Yzaguirre (head of delegation); Thomas E. Perez; and Liliana Ayalde.  August 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Riley's Cafe and Catering, where he had breakfast with local veterans Amanda Irish, Jake Krapfl, and Terry Philips to discuss veterans health care, posttraumatic stress disorder treatment efforts, and other veterans benefits. He then traveled to Cascade, IA. Later, he traveled to Dubuque, IA, where he was joined by Mrs. Obama. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in an interview with Nancy O'Dell of "Entertainment Tonight." He also participated in separate interviews with People magazine and the "Morning Mayhem" radio program of KOB-FM in Albuquerque, NM. Later, he was notified by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan about the shooting at the headquarters of theFamily Research Council in Washington, DC.  Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Davenport, IA. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to  returned to Washington, DC. August 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, he visited the Democratic National Committee headquarters to meet with campaign staff and thank them for their hard work. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner. The White House announced that the President will travel to Manchester, NH, on August 18. The President announced his intention to appoint William W. Fox, Jr., and Donald K. Hansen as U.S. Commissioners for the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Earl A. Powell III as a member of the Commission of Fine Arts. August 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with his senior advisers. August 18 In the morning, the President traveled to Windham, NH. While en route, he stopped at Mack's Apples farm market in Londonderry, NH, where he shopped and visited with patrons. In the afternoon, at Windham High School, the President participated in an interview with Josh McElveen of WMUR-TV, for later broadcast. Later, he traveled to Rochester, NH.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. August 19 The White House announced that the President will travel to Columbus, OH on August 21. August 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room and then in the Oval Office, the President participated in separate interviews with WTLV/WJXX-TV of Jacksonville; FL; WVEC-TV of Norfolk, VA; KNSD-TV of San Diego, CA; and the Virginian-Pilot newspaper of Norfolk, VA. In the evening, at the Mintwood Place restaurant, the President and Mrs. Obama had dinner with David Garcia of North Carolina, Ben Oakleaf of Idaho, and Latasha Scurry of Florida, winners of a contest held by his 2012 election campaign. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to Columbus, OH, on August 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Reno, NV, on August 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV on August 21 and 22. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on August 22. The President declared a major disaster in Ohio and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by a severe storms and straight-line winds from June 29 through July 2. August 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Columbus, OH. In the afternoon, at Capital University, the President participated in an interview with Ed Gordon of Black Entertainment Television. Later, he traveled to Reno, NV. In the evening, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Later, he traveled to Henderson, NV. August 22 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the economic crisis in Europe and the situation in Syria. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the Freedom Wildfire from August 3 through 14. August 23 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then in the Library, he participated in an interview with Ben Feller of the Associated Press. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Acting Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia to express his condolences to the people of Ethiopia on the death of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, and to discuss U.S. relations with Ethiopia. August 24 In the evening, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the 2012 Paralympic Games in London, United Kingdom on August 29: Gen. Martin E. Dempsey (head of delegation); Louis B. Susman; Lisa P. Jackson; Kareem A. Dale; Jean Driscoll; Sharon Hedrick; and Larry T. Hughes. The White House announced that the President will travel to Ames, IA and Fort Collin, CO on August 28. The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by flooding from June 22 through July 12. August 26 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President received a briefing from Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate and National Hurricane Center Director Richard Knabb on preparations for Tropical Storm Isaac. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. Richard L. Scott of Florida to discuss storm preparation efforts and Federal support for the State's emergency response efforts. August 27 In the afternoon, the President received a briefing from Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate and National Hurricane Center Director Richard Knabb on preparations for Tropical Storm Isaac. Then, he participated in a telephone briefing on storm preparation efforts with Administrator Fugate, Director Knabb, Gov. Robert J. Bentley of Alabama, Gov. Piyush "Bobby" Jindal of Louisiana, Gov. D. Phillip Bryant of Mississippi, and Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu of New Orleans, LA. The White House announced that the President will travel to Charlottesville, VA, on August 29. The President declared an emergency in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to emergency conditions resulting from Tropical Storm Isaac beginning on August 26 and continuing. August 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate and National Hurricane Center Director Richard Knabb on preparations for Tropical Storm Isaac. Later, he traveled to Ames, IA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at Iowa State University in Ames, IA, the President participated in a roundtable teleconference interview with college journalists from around the Nation. Later, he traveled to Fort Collins, CO. In the evening, the President participated in a telephone interview with Lauren Moser of KCSU in Fort Collins, CO. Later, he traveled to the Fort Collins Marriott hotel. The White House announced that the President will travel to El Paso, TX, on August 31. The President declared an emergency in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to emergency conditions resulting from Tropical Storm Isaac beginning on August 26 and continuing. August 29 In the morning, at the Fort Collins Marriott hotel in Fort Collins, CO, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, National Hurricane Center Director Richard Knabb, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the impact of Hurricane Isaac. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Charlottesville, VA, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he participated in a telephone briefing on the impact of Hurricane Isaac with Secretary Napolitano, Administrator Fugate, Director Knabb, Gov. Robert J. Bentley of Alabama, Gov. Piyush "Bobby" Jindal of Louisiana, Gov. D. Phillip Bryant of Mississippi, and Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu of New Orleans, LA. In the afternoon, at the nTelos Wireless Pavilion in Charlottesville, VA, the President participated in a question-and-answer session on the social media web site reddit.com. Later, he visited the Obama for America campaign office in Charlottesville, where he met with campaign volunteers and staffers. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will welcome the 2012 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic teams to the White House on September 14. The White House announced that the President will travel to Des Moines, IA, and Sioux City, IA, on September 1. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Isaac beginning on August 26 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Isaac beginning on August 26 and continuing. August 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden received an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boulder, CO, on September 1 and 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Toledo, OH, on September 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cleveland, OH, on September 3. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Ethiopia to attend the state funeral of the late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia on September 2: Susan E. Rice (head of delegation); Donald E. Booth; Johnnie Carson; and Gayle E. Smith. August 31 In the morning, the President traveled to Fort Bliss, TX. In the afternoon, the President participated in a telephone briefing on the impact of Hurricane Isaac with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and parish presidents, mayors, and county leaders from storm-affected areas in Louisiana and Mississippi.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House released further details on the President's visit to Boulder, CO, on September 1 and 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Louisiana on September 3 to meet with local officials and view the ongoing response and recovery efforts to damage caused by Hurricane Isaac. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth K. Meyer to be a member of the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert L. Stein to be a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be General Trustees on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: Adrienne Arsht; Colleen B. Bell; David C. Bohnett; Giselle Fernandez; Norma Lee Funger; Caroline B. Kennedy; Rebecca Pohlad; Romesh Wadhwani; Anthony Welters; and Elaine Wynn. September 1 In the morning, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA. While en route, aboard Air Force One, he participated in an interview with USA Today.  In the afternoon, he traveled to Urbandale, IA. Then he participated in separate television interviews with KCRG-TV of Cedar Rapids, IA, KTVO-TV of Ottumwa, IA, and WHBF-TV of Rock Island, IL. Later he traveled to Sioux City, IA. While en route, he stopped for pizza at Bob Roe's Point After restaurant in Sioux City, where he visited with patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to Denver, CO, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Norfolk, VA, on September 4. September 2 In the morning, the President stopped at The Buff restaurant in Boulder, CO, where  he ordered breakfast and visited with patrons.  In the afternoon, he traveled to Toledo, OH. The White House announced that the President will travel to New Orleans, LA on September 3. September 3 In the morning, the President stopped at Rick's City Diner in Toledo, OH, where he met and had breakfast with local autoworkers Daniel Schlieman, Heather Finrock, and James Fayson, and visited with patrons.   In the afternoon, the President participated in separate interviews with WXIX-FOX19 of Cincinnati, OH, and WHBC radio of Canton, OH. Later, he traveled to Saint John the Baptist Parish, LA, where, upon arrival, he received a briefing by local officials and first responders on the response and recovery efforts for Hurricane Isaac, took a tour of flood-damaged areas, and spoke with residents. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White announced that the President will visit Charlotte, NC, on September 5. September 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, he traveled to Norfolk, VA. In the afternoon, the President participated in a telephone interiew with Mike Street of WBTJ in Richmond, VA. Then he participated in separate television interviews with Ryan Nobles, WWBT-TV of Richmond, VA; and Jay Warren, WSLS of Roanoke, VA. Later, he stopped at Fire Station No. 14, in Norfolk, where he met and visited with firefighters Ralph Sullivan, Johnathan Cuci, Larry Phillips, Eddie Ferro, and George Cutler.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Charlotte, NC, on September 5. September 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Charlotte, NC, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Iowa City, IA, on September 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Portsmouth, NH, on September 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to St. Petersburg, FL, on September 7. September 6 The White House announced that the President will travel to West Palm Beach, FL, on September 9. September 7 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Portsmouth, NH. Then, in the afternoon, they traveled to Cedar Rapids, IA. In the evening, the President traveled to St. Petersburg, FL, where he remained overnight. September 8 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Kissimmee, FL. While en route, he stopped at the West Tampa Sandwich Shop & Restaurant in Tampa, FL, where he ordered food and met with patrons. In the evening, the President traveled to Orlando, FL. Upon arrival, he visited Gators Dockside sports bar, where he ordered a beer and visited with patrons. Later, he traveled to the Westin Imagine Orlando hotel, where he remained overnight.  September 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Melbourne, FL. While en route, he stopped at the Ossorio Bakery & Cafe in Cocoa Village, FL, where he met with patrons.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to West Palm Beach, FL. While en route, he stopped at Big Apple Pasta & Pizza Restaurant in Fort Pierce, FL, where he ordered food and met with patrons and restaurant owner Scott Van Duzer, who hugged the President and lifted him off the ground. Also while en route, he stopped by the Obama for American campaign office in Port St. Lucie, FL, where he met with campaign volunteers. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 10 During the day, the President met with senior administration officials to discuss preparedness and security posture in advance of the 11th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, and Denver, CO, on September 12. The President announced his intention to nominate F. Scott Kieff to be a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Joshua D. Wright to be a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. Beecroft to be Ambassador to Iraq. The President announced his intention to nominate T. Charles Cooper to be Assistant Administrator for Legislative and Public Affairs at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Rose Gottemoeller to be Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security at the Department of State. September 11 In the morning, on the South Lawn of the White House, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a moment of silence to mark the 11th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. They then traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. While en route, they stopped at Arlington National Cemetery to visit graves of U.S. military personnel killed in Afghanistan and Iraq. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, where he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families and presented Purple Hearts to two servicemembers. He then returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation in Iran. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will welcome the 2012 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Teams to the White House on September 14. September 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton traveled to the State Department to address staff members and express his condolences on the deaths of U.S. Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Officer Sean P. Smith, and State Department security officers Glen A. Doherty and Tyrone S. Woods in the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya. He then returned to the White House. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss the security situation in Afghanistan, protests in Islamic countries against the "Innocence of Muslims" film, and the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discus U.S. relations with Egypt, protests in Islamic countries against the "Innocence of Muslims" film, and the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya  In the evening, the President traveled to Aurora, CO, where he stayed overnight. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Mohamed Magariaf of Libya to discuss U.S. relations with Libya and the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce Carter to be a member of the National Council of the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Martin J. O'Malley to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Shell to be a member and chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne J. Udall to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate John Unsworth as a member of the National Council on the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate Ted Dintersmith and Joan M. Prince as Alternate Representatives of the U.S. to the 67th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher R. Beall to be a Director on the AMTRAK Board of Directors. The President announced his intention to nominate Lorne W. Craner to be a member on the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. September 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Golden, CO. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force one, he had a telephone conversation with President Abd al-Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen to discuss protests in Islamic countries against the "Innocence of Muslims" film and the security of the U.S. Embassy in Sanaa. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2011 WNBA champion Minnesota Lynx to the White House on September 18. The President announced his intention to nominate Stewart M. De Soto and Walter G. Secada to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Doms to be Under Secretary for Economics Affairs at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah Ann McCarthy to be U.S. Ambassador to Lithuania. The President announced his intention to nominate William S. McDermott and Nina M. Wells to be members of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. The President announced his intention to appoint Alex Krieger as a member of the Commission of Fine Arts. September 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, he traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD. Later, they returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President traveled to a private residence for an Obama Victory 2012 fundraiser. Later, he returned to the White House. September 15 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with the chiefs of mission at U.S. diplomatic facilities in Sudan, Tunisia, Libya, and Yemen to discuss diplomatic security efforts throughout the region in the wake of the recent attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cincinnati and Columbus, OH, on September 17. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on September 18. September 16 The White House announced further details on the President's visits to Cincinnati and Columbus, OH, on September 17. September 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Cincinnati, OH. In the afternoon, at Eden Park, the President participated in separate telephone interviews for the radio shows of Steve Harvey and Michael Baisden. Then, he traveled to Columbus, OH, where, at Schiller Park, he participated in separate telephone interviews with Jim Albright of WHLO in Akron, OH, and Bill Wills of WTAM in Cleveland, OH, and attended a roundtable fundraiser. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced further details on the President's visit to New York City on September 18. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami and Tampa, FL, on September 20. September 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to offer his condolences on the loss of life and injures resulting from the attack on a Turkish military convoy in Bingol Province and to discuss global counterterrorism efforts, the situation in Syria, and Turkey-U.S. relations. Prime Minister Erdogan expressed his condolences the deaths of U.S. Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Officer Sean P. Smith, and State Department security officers Glen A. Doherty and Tyrone S. Woods in the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. Later, at the Ed Sullivan Theater, he participated in an interview with David Letterman for CBS's "Late Show with David Letterman." In the evening, at the 40/40 Club, the President met with Ericka L. Dungee of Hermitage, PA, and her husband William H., winners of a campaign contest. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Milwaukee, WI, on September 22. September 19 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President had a video conference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss recent insider attacks on U.S., coalition, and Afghan forces, protests in Islamic countries against the "Innocence of Muslims" film, and the continued implementation of the U.S.-Afghan strategic partnership agreement. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing and met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, and Senior Director for Asian Affairs Daniel A. Russell met with Member of Parliament and National Leagure for Democracy Party Leader Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma. The President announced his intention to nominate Sylvia M. Becker to be a member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States. The President announced his intention to nominate Bibiana Boerio to be Director of the Mint at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert F. Godec to be U.S. Ambassador to Kenya. The President announced his intention to nominate Keith Kelly to be Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate Beth J. Rosenberg to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Cheryl Saban to be a U.S. Representative to the 67th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The President announced his intention to nominate Frederick Vollrath to be , Assistant Secretary forAssistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate D. Anthony West to be Associate Attorney General at the Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Eldridge and George E. Moose to be members of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace. The President announced that he has nominated Jennifer A. Dorsey and Andrew P. Gordon to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. The President announced that he has nominated Michael J. McShane to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon. September 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Coral Cables, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to OMG! Burgers in South Miami for a roundtable meeting with first-time voters Maximo Soler, Leslie Redmond, and Emily Young. Then, he traveled to Tampa, FL. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has nominated Ketanji B. Jackson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The President announced that he has nominated Nelson S. Roman to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Robert D. Okun to be a judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. September 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Woodbridge, VA. In the afternoon, the President participated in separate telephone interviews with Craig Carper of WCVE in Richmond, VA, Coy Barefoot of WINA in Charlottesville, VA, and EZ Street of WKYS in Silver Spring, MD. He then returned to Washington, DC. Later, he visited the Democratic National Committee headquarters to practice for the upcoming Presidential debates. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with U.S. Ambassador-designate to Iraq Robert S. Beecroft. Also in the Oval Office, he met with met with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon, Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, National Security Adviser to the Vice President Tony Blinken, and White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on September 24. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan F. Estevez to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Vincent G. Logan to be Special Trustee for American Indians at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to nominate Olga Viso to be a member of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals as members of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority: Marilyn A. Brown; V. Lynn Evans; Michael McWherter; and Joseph H. Ritch. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board: Jean Bahr; Steven M. Becker; Susan L. Brantley; Efi Foufoula-Georgiou; Gerald S. Frankel; Kenneth L. Peddicord; Paul J. Turinsky; and Mary Lou Zoback. The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Isaac from August 26 through September 5. September 22 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI. Upon arrival, he and Mayor ThomasM. Barrett of Milwaukee, WI traveled to the Milwaukee Theater. While en route, they stopped at Usinger's Famous Sausage store, where he purchased food and met with patrons and employees. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to New York City, where, at the studios of ABC television, he and Mrs. Obama participated in an interview for later broadcast with Barbara Walters, Whoopi Goldberg, Joy Behar, Sherri Shepherd, and Elisabeth Hasselbeck of ABC's "The View" program. In the evening, at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, the President and Mrs. Obama attended a reception for visiting heads of state and government. The White House announced that the President will travel to Toledo, OH, and Akron, OH, on September 26. The White House announced that the President will travel to Virginia Beach, VA, on September 27. September 25 In the morning, at the United Nations Headquarters, the President met separately with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and U.N. General Assembly President Vuk Jeremic. He then dropped by a meeting between Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan and President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi of Yemen to thank President Hadi for his efforts to secure the U.S. Embassy and diplomatic personnel in Yemen during protests against the "Innocence of Muslims" film. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm, straight-line winds, and flooding on July 20. September 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Bowling Green, OH. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Kent, OH. Later, at Kent State University, he participated in an interview with the editorial board of The Plain Dealer of Cleveland, OH. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Virginia Beach, VA. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, on September 30. September 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing followed by a meeting with senior advisers. Later, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss Israel-U.S. relations and the situation in Iran. In the afternoon, the President visited Democratic National Committee headquarters, where he met with advisers and prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. The President announced his intention to appoint John G. Stratton as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to appoint David A. Ullrich as Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Ryan Wulff as Deputy U.S. Commissioner of the International Whaling Commission. September 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Henderson, NV, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at the Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa in Henderson, NV, the President prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. In the evening, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Later, he returned to the Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa in Henderson, NV, where he remained overnight. October 1 In the morning, at the Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President visited campaign workers at the Obama for America office in Henderson, NV, and brought them pizza from nearby Settebello restaurant. During the day, at the Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa, the President prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. The White House announced that the President will travel to Denver, CO, on October 3. The White House announced that the President will travel to Madison, WI, on October 4. October 2 In the morning, at the Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa in Henderson, NV, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boulder City, NV, where he toured the Hoover Dam. He then returned to Henderson, NV. During the day, at the Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa in Henderson, NV, the President prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with the family of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Nicholas J. Ivie, who was killed in the line of duty near Naco, AZ, earlier in the day. He expressed his sadness for the family's loss and gratitude for Agent Ivie's service. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cleveland, OH, on October 5. October 3 In the morning, the President traveled to Denver, CO, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the University of Denver, where, at the Magness Arena, site of the first Presidential debate, he participated in a pre-debate walkthrough and technical rehearsal. The White House announced that the President will travel to Vienna, VA,  and Fairfax, VA, on October 5. October 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Madison, WI, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on October 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Keene, CA, and San Francisco, CA, on October 8. October 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Fairfax, VA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH. He then visited the West Side Market, where he purchased food and met with vendors and patrons. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. October 7 In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at a private residence, the President attended a campaign event. Then, he traveled to the Beverly Hilton hotel. In the evening, at the Nokia Theatre L.A. Live, the President met with Vicki Moore of Matthews, NC, and Linda Romans-Hnath of Broadview Heights, OH, winners of a campaign contest. Later, he traveled to the Beverly Hilton hotel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Columbus, OH, on October 9. October 8 In the morning, the President traveled to Keene, CA, where he toured the memorial garden of the Cesar E. Chavez National Monument with Helen F. Chavez, wife, and Paul F. Chavez, son, of Mr. Chavez, and Dolores C. Huerta, cofounder, and Arturo S. Rodriguez, president, United Farm Workers. In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA. Later, at the InterContinental San Francisco hotel, he attended a campaign event. In the evening, the President returned to the InterContinental San Francisco hotel.  October 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Columbus, OH, arriving in the afternoon. During the day, the President participated in a radio interview with Tom Joyner for the "Tom Joyner Morning Show." In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with David J. Wineland, a physicist at the U.S. Department of Commerce's National Institute of Standards and Technology, joint winner of the 2012 Nobel Prize in Physics. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on October 11. October 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. October 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Vice President Joe Biden to wish him luck in that evening's Vice Presidential debate in Danville, KT. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Vice President Biden to congratulate him on his performance in the Vice Presidential debate. The White House announced that the President will travel to Williamsburg, VA, on October 13. October 12 In the afternoon, at the Smith Commons Dining Room and Public House, the President had dinner with winners of a campaign contest: Kimberley Cathey of Greensboro, NC, and her husband Ron; Mario Orosa of North Canton, OH, and his wife Deidra; and Joe Laliberte of Colorado Springs, CO, and his mother Patti.  October 13 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Williamsburg, Virginia. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Kingsmill Resort. The White House announced that the President will travel to Hempstead, New York on October 16. October 14 In the morning, at the Kingsmill Resort in Williamsburg, VA, the President prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. In the afternoon, the President visited campaign workers at the local Obama for America field office and brought them pizza, and while there, he also made telephone calls to a couple of volunteers. Later, in the afternoon, the President returned to the Kingsmill Resort. October 15 In the morning, at the Kingsmill Resort in Williamsburg, VA, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mount Vernon, IA and to Athens, OH on October 17. October 16 In the morning, the President traveled to Hempstead, NY.  In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Hofstra University. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City and to Manchester, NH on October 18. October 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  Then, he traveled to Mount Vernon, IA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at Cornell College, the President participated in separate telephone interviews with syndicated radio personalities Michael Baisden and Jesus Garcia. Later, in the afternoon, the President traveled to Athens, OH, where, at Ohio University, he also participated in separate telephone interviews with syndicated radio personalities Oswaldo Diaz of Entravision's "Erazno y la Chokolata" show and Colby Colb of Radio One's "Colby Colb Show". In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 18 In the morning, the President traveled to Manchester, NH. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, where at Comedy Central Studios, he participated in the taping of an interview with Jon Stewart of Comedy Central's "The Daily Show". In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to the Holy See to attend the canonization mass of Kateri Tekakwitha and Marianne Cope on October 21: Miguel Humberto Diaz (head of delegation); Sister Agnelle Ching; and Sister Kateri Mitchell. The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Isaac from August 27 through August 29. October 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then he traveled to Fairfax, VA.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later he traveled to Camp David, MD. The White House announced that the President will travel to Boca Raton, FL on October 22. The White House announced that the President will travel to Dayton, OH on October 23. October 20 During the day, the President prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. October 21 During the day, the President met with his senior advisers. He also participated in a conference call with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III, and White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew to discuss the shootings at the Azana Salon and Spa in Brookfield, Wisconsin. He also prepared for the upcoming Presidential debate. October 22 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, D.C. Later, he traveled to Boca Raton, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Lynn University, where, at the Keith C. and Elaine Johnson Wold Performing Arts Center, site of the final Presidential debate, he participated in a pre-debate walk-through and technical rehearsal. He then traveled to the Embassy Suites Boca Raton hotel. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Lynn University. Later, they returned to the Embassy Suites Boca Raton hotel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Davenport, IA, Denver, CO, and Los Angeles, CA, on October 24. October 23 In the morning, the President traveled to  Delray Beach, FL. While en route, he stopped at the Daughter of Zion Junior Academy and met with students and staff. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Dayton, OH. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President participated in a telephone conversation with President/Publisher Laura L. Hollingsworth and Vice President of News Rick Green of the Des Moines Register in Des Moines, IA. The White House announced that the President will travel to Tampa, FL, Richmond, VA, and Chicago, IL, on October 25. October 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Davenport, IA. In the afternoon, at Antonella's Ristorante & Pizzeria, the President had lunch with local campaign volunteers Debra S. Willaredt, Marcia O. Teshak, and Victoria F. Felger. Then, he traveled to Denver, CO. Later, he traveled to Burbank, CA, arriving in the evening.  In the evening, at NBC Studios, the President participated in an interview with Jay Leno of "The Tonight Show." Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV Later, he traveled to the Bellagio Las Vegas hotel and casino, where he met with employees. He then traveled to Tampa, FL, arriving in the morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Nashua, N.H. on October 27. October 25 In the morning, upon arrival in Tampa, FL, the the President stopped at a Krispy Kreme Doughnuts franchise, where he greeted patrons and purchased doughnuts. He then visited Fire Station No. 14, where he delivered three dozen doughnuts to and spoke with firefighters. Then, he had a telephone conversation with former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to thank the former Secretary for his campaign endorsement. Later, he traveled to Richmond, VA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL and cast his ballot at the Martin Luther King Community Center. Later, he stopped at a campaign office to greet volunteers and had a phone conversation with Randy Lyon of Dubuque, IA, and other campaign volunteers to thank them for their efforts. In the evening, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. October 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, the President participated in an interview with radio host Michael A. Smerconish, which was taped for later broadcast.  Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a conference call with Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, National Hurricane Center Director Richard Knabb, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan to discuss preparations for Tropical Storm Sandy. He also met with Special Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Senior Director for Resilience Policy Richard A. Reed and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco. In the afternoon, he visited the Democratic National Committee headquarters, where he participated in seven separate interviews with Blair Miller of WSOC–TV in Charlotte, NC, Calvin Hughes of WPLG–TV in Miami, FL, Craig McKee of WISN–TV in Milwaukee, WI, Jerry Revish of WBNS–TV in Columbus, OH, Kevin Cooney of KCCI–TV in Des Moines, IA, Kyle Clark of KUSA–TV in Denver, CO, and Melissa Carlson of KRNV–TV in Reno, NV. Later, he returned to the White House.  Later in the afternoon, in the Blue Room, the President participated in a interview with Sway Calloway of MTV. Then, in the Oval Office, he participated in a radio interview with April D. Ryan of American Urban Radio Networks, which was taped for later broadcast. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Lin Dunn, Finals MVP Tamika Catchings, and Chief Operations Officer and General Manager Kelly Krauskopf to congratulate the Indiana Fever on winning the 2012 WNBA Finals.  The White house announced the President will travel to Orlando, FL and Youngstown, OH on October 29. October 27 In the morning, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, National Hurricane Center Director Richard Knabb, and Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan on the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Sandy. Later, he traveled to Manchester, NH, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at the office of Teamsters Union Local 633 in Manchester, NH, the President attended a campaign event. Later, he traveled to Nashua, NH, where, at Elm Street Middle School, he participated in separate radio interviews with Greg Kretschmar of WGIR in Manchester, NH, Julio Sanchez Cristo of W Radio in Bogota, Colombia, and E.J. Greig of WIZF in Cincinnati, OH. He also participated in an interview with Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski of MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Merrimack, NH, where, at the Common Man restaurant, he met with patrons and employees. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to Orlando, FL, on October 28. The White House announced that the President's planned visits to Virginia on October 29 and Colorado Springs, CO, on October 30 have been canceled. October 28 In the afternoon, at the headquarters of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the President participated in a telephone briefing with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, Deputy Assistant to the President for Homeland Security Richard A. Reed, and Governors and mayors from States affected by Hurricane Sandy to discuss the ongoing Federal, State, and local response to the storm. Later, he traveled to Orlando, FL, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President visited the Obama for America campaign office in Orlando, FL, where he met with campaign volunteers and staffers. Later, he traveled to the Doubletree by Hilton Orlando Downtown hotel, where he spent the night. The White House announced that the President's will return to the White House to monitor the preparation and response efforts for Hurricane Sandy immediately following his campaign event in Orlando, FL, on October 29.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Green Bay, WI, on October 30. The President declared an emergency in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 27 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 27 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement District and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 28 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 27 and continuing. October 29 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, in the Situation Room, the President received a briefing by videoconference from his homeland security team, members of the Cabinet, and senior advisers on the Federal Government's ongoing response to Hurricane Sandy. The White House announced that the President's planned visits to Orlando, FL, on October 29 and Green Bay, WI, on October 30 have been canceled. The President declared an emergency in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 29 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 27 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. October 30 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President received a briefing by videoconference from his homeland security team and senior advisers on the Federal Government's ongoing response to Hurricane Sandy. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he participated in a telephone conversation with Governors and mayors from States affected by Hurricane Sandy to discuss the ongoing Federal, State, and local response to the storm. He also thanked the officials for their leadership, praised the heroism of emergency response teams, and expressed his concern for residents affected by the storm. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President participated in a telephone conversation with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, other senior advisers, and utility company executives to discuss power restoration efforts in areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. The President also thanked the executives for their companies' storm preparation and response efforts and commended the efforts of utility workers in the field. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Ohio on October 31 has been canceled. The White House announced that the President will travel to New Jersey on October 31 to tour damage caused by Hurricane Sandy. The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts due to Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 27 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts due to Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. The President declared an emergency in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 26 and continuing. The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy beginning on October 27 and continuing. October 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, at the Federal Emergency Management Agency's National Response Coordination Center, he received a briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and other senior members of his homeland security team on the Federal Government's ongoing response to Hurricane Sandy. Vice President Joe Biden and Gen. Charles H. Jacoby, Jr., USA, commander, U.S. Northern Command, joined the briefing by videoconference. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Robert I. Grossman, dean and chief executive officer, and Kimberly K. Glassman, chief nursing officer, of New York University Langone Medical Center, to commend them for their efforts in overseeing the safe evacuation of 215 patients from the hospital on October 29 following power failures caused by Hurricane Sandy. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Atlantic City, NJ, where, aboard Marine One, he took an aerial tour of coastal areas affected by Hurricane Sandy with Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate and Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey. The President, Administrator Fugate, and Gov. Christie then traveled to Brigantine, NJ, where, at the Brigantine Beach Community Center, they met with residents affected by the storm. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, and Boulder, CO, on November 1. The White House announced that the President will travel to Hilliard, Lima, and Springfield, OH, on November 2. November 1 In the morning, in the Diplomatic Room, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate on the Federal Government's ongoing response to Hurricane Sandy. Later, he traveled to Green Bay, WI. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut and Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin of West Virginia to discuss response and recovery efforts following Hurricane Sandy. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he participated in separate telephone conversations with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey and State and local officials, and Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut and State and local officials to discuss response and recovery efforts following Hurricane Sandy. The calls with New Jersey and Connecticut officials were joined by Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boulder, CO. In the evening, at the University of Colorado—Boulder in Boulder, CO, the President participated in a telephone conversation with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and State and local officials to discuss response and recovery efforts following Hurricane Sandy. Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate also joined the call. Later, he traveled to Columbus, OH. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Hilton Columbus Downtown hotel. The White House announced that the President will travel to Mentor, OH, Milwaukee, WI, Dubuque, IA, and Prince William County, VA, on November 3. November 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Hilliard, OH. While en route, he received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the Federal Government's ongoing response to Hurricane Sandy. Later, he traveled to Springfield, OH, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Lima, OH. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to Concord, NH, Orlando, FL, Cincinnati, OH, and Aurora, CO, on November 4. The White House announced that the President will travel to Madison, WI, on November 5. November 3 In the morning, the President traveled to the headquarters of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. He then returned to the White House. Later, he traveled Mentor, OH. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Milwaukee, WI. Later, he traveled to Dubuque, IA. In the evening, the President traveled to Bristow, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Des Moines, IA, on November 5. The President declared a major disaster exists in Utah and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm and flooding on September 11. The President declared a major disaster exists in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through 31. November 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Concord, NH. Later, he traveled to Hollywood, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH. During the day, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the ongoing response and recovery efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. In the evening, the President traveled to Aurora, CO. Later, he traveled to Madison, WI, arriving in the morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on November 6. November 5 In the early morning, upon arrival in Madison, WI, the President traveled to the Sheraton Madison hotel. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Columbus, OH, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone briefing with members of his Cabinet and other Federal, State, and local officials on the ongoing response and recovery efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. In the evening, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA. While en route, he stopped at an Obama for America campaign office in Columbus, OH, where he met with campaign volunteers and made phone calls to voters. Upon arrival in Des Moines, IA, he was joined by Mrs. Obama. Later in the evening, the President and and Mrs. Obama traveled to Chicago, IL, arriving in the morning. November 6 In the early morning, upon arrival in Chicago, IL, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to their Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. Later in the morning, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, and White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew on the ongoing response and recovery efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. Later, he visited an Obama for American campaign office and met with campaign volunteers and made phone calls to campaign volunteers in Wisconsin to thank them for their efforts. Then, he traveled to the Fairmont Hotel for separate satellite interviews with television stations from across the country. In the afternoon, at the Fairmont Hotel, the President had additional separate satellite and taped interviews with television stations from across the country. He then returned to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the Fairmont Hotel to await the results of the 2012 Presidential election. November 7 In the early morning, the President, Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to McCormick Place. Later, they returned to their Hyde Park-Kenwood residence. Later in the morning, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco on the ongoing response and recovery efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy.  Throughout the morning, the President made separate phone calls to Congressional leaders to discuss legislative priorities for the remainder of the year. In the afternoon, the President visited an Obama for American campaign officer, where he thanked the staff and volunteers for their work. Later, he, Mrs. Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. November 8 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Julia E. Gillard of Australia, President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada, President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia, President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt, President Francois Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, and Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to thank them for their messages of congratulations on his reelection. Then, in the Oval Office, he received an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President participated in a National Security Council meeting. The White House announced that the President will travel to Bangkok, Thailand; Rangoon, Burma; and Phnom Penh, Cambodia on November 17 through 20. November 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden, had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. During the day, the President received a telephone briefing from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew , and Deputy Assistant to the President for Homeland Security Richard A. Reed on the ongoing response and recovery efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. November 11 In the morning, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Veterans Day breakfast for veterans. Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill Biden also attended. Then, they traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to thank them for their messages of congratulations on his reelection. November 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy, King Abdullah II of Jordan, Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani of Qatar, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy Brey of Spain to thank them for their messages of congratulations on his reelection. Later in the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with labor and progressive leaders to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with leaders of women's organizations to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Special Assistant to the President and Coordinator for South Asia Douglas E. Lute. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on November 15. November 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with business leaders to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland, President Shimon Peres of Israel, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda of Japan, President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, and President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto and President Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa of Mexico to thank them for their messages of congratulations on his reelection. Also during the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Gaza. The President announced that he has nominated Claire R. Kelly to be a judge on the U.S. Court of International Trade. The President announced that he has nominated Valerie E. Caproni and Analisa Torres to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Kenneth J. Gonzales to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. The President announced that he has nominated Raymond P. Moore to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado. The President announced that he has nominated Beverly Reid O'Connell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated William L. Thomas to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Derrick K. Watson to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii. November 15 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City.  In the afternoon, aboard Marine One, the President took an aerial tour of areas affected by Hurricane Sandy with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun L.S. Donovan, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, and Sens. Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand. Later, they traveled to Staten Island, NY, where, at a Federal Emergency Management Agency disaster recovery center, they met with local officials, aid workers, volunteers, and residents affected by the storm. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Then, in the Family Theater, he hosted a screening of the film "Lincoln" for castmembers and crew. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Department of the Interior on December 5. The President announced his intention to nominate William S. Greenberg to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert F. Cohen, Jr., to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy J. Feighery to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the U.S. The President announced his intention to nominate Audrey Choi, Tanya M. Fiddler, and Douglas Low to be members of the Community Development Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Nani A. Coloretti to be Assistant Secretary for Management at the Department of the Treasury. November 16 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with leaders of civic organizations to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon and Deputy National Security Adviser Denis R. McDonough. Also during the day, the President had seperate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, and President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Gaza. The White House announced that the President will hold the Thanksgiving turkey pardoning ceremony at the White House on November 21. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Science Board at the National Science Foundation: Deborah Lowenberg Ball; Inez Y. Fung; G. Peter Lepage; and Geraldine Richmond. The President announced his intention to appoint Marc D. Guthrie as a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Norma Jean Mattei as a Commissioner of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy E. Soderberg as a member of the Public Interest Declassification Board. The President declared a major disaster in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 27 through November 8. November 17 In the morning, the President traveled to Ramstein Air Force Base, Germany, arriving in the evening. Then, he traveled to Bangkok, Thailand, arriving the following afternoon. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the situation in Gaza. November 18 In the afternoon, at Don Mueang International Airport, the President was greeted by Thai and U.S. diplomatic officials. Then, he traveled to Wat Pho Royal Monastery, where he and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton toured the temple complex with Abbot Chaokun Suthee Thammanuwat. Later, he and Secretary Clinton traveled to Siriraj Hospital, where he received a royal audience with King  Phumiphon Adunyadet of Thailand. In the evening, the President and Secretary Clinton traveled to the Government House, where he participated in a formal welcoming ceremony with Prime Minister Yinglak Chinnawat and signed the official guestbook. Later, he traveled to Chulalongkorn University, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he traveled to the Four Seasons Hotel Bangkok. November 19 In the morning, the President and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton traveled to Rangoon, Burma. Upon arrival, they traveled to the Parliament Building. Later, they traveled to the residence of Member of Parliament and Leader of the National League for Democracy Party Leader Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma. In the afternoon, the President and Secretary Clinton traveled to the U.S. Embassy, where they met with Embassy personnel and their families. Then, they traveled to the Shwedagon Pagoda, where they toured the temple complex. Later, at the University of Yangon, he met with representatives of Burmese civil society. Later in the afternoon, the President and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton traveled to Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Upon arrival, he and Secretary Clinton traveled to the Peace Palace, where he met with Prime Minister Hun Sen of Cambodia. During the day, the President received a briefing on the situation in Gaza from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and National Security Adviser Thomas E. Donilon. In the evening, at the Peace Palace, the President participated in an official photograph with Association of South East Asian Nations leaders. Then, he attended a U.S.-ASEAN leaders meeting. Later, he traveled to the Diamond Island Convention & Exhibition Center, where he attended an East Asia Summit dinner. Later in the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to express regret for the loss of life due to the situation in Gaza and the November 17 train accident in Assiut, Egypt. Later in the evening, the President traveled to his hotel. Then, he had another telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Gaza. The White House announced that the President will welcome President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto of Mexico on November 27. November 20 In the morning, the President and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton traveled to the Peace Palace, where he participated in a meeting of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. In the afternoon, the President participated an official photograph with leaders of East Asia Summit. Then, he participated in a plenary session of the East Asia Summit. Later, he attended a retreat session with leaders of the East Asia Summit. Then, he traveled to the Raffles Hotel, where he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Gaza. In the evening, the President traveled to Yokota Air Force Base, Japan, arriving the following morning. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Gaza. The President announced his intention to appoint Althemese Pemberton Barnes and Vishakha N. Desai as members of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to appoint William M. Brown as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences: Darryl J. Ford; Kris D. Gutierrez; Bridget Terry Long; Margaret R. McLeod; and Robert A. Underwood. The President announced his intention to appoint Sue Hoppin  and Paula G. Thornhill as members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy. The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through November 4. November 21 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, crossing the international dateline. In the afternoon, at the Capitol Area Food Bank, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia participated in a service event. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to discuss the situation in Gaza and joint efforts to negotiate a cease-fire. November 22 During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with 10 members of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service. November 24 In the afternoon, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Arlington, VA, where he bought Christmas gifts at One More Page Books, spoke with the store’s owner Eileen McGervey, and promoted Small Business Saturday. Then, they returned to Washington, DC. Over the weekend, the President had separate telephone conversations with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid and Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. November 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Boyko Borisov of Bulgaria to the White House on December 3. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Mexico to attend the inauguration of Enrique Pena Nieto as President of Mexico on December 1: Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (head of delegation); E. Anthony Wayne; Hilda L. Solis; John O. Brennan; and Roberta S. Jacobson. The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through November 8. November 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan and senior advisers to discuss ongoing recovery efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with small-business owners to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto of Mexico to discuss bilateral, regional, and global issues. Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. The President announced his intention to appoint Edward S. Itta and James J. McCarthy as members of the Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Brady J. Deaton as Chairman of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Waded Cruzado and Harold L. Martin, Sr., as members of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Lisa Green Hall as a member of the Community Development Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Ed Stockwell as a U.S. Commissioner for the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission. The President announced that he has nominated Nitza I. Quinones Alejandro, Luis F. Restrepo, and Jeffrey L. Schmehl to be Judges on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 29 through November 8. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm, straight-line winds, flooding, and landslides from September 15 through 30. November 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with members of the Cabinet. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with business leaders to discuss the economy and deficit reduction.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. The White House announced that the President will travel to Hatfield, PA, on November 30. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through November 8. November 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with President Sebastian Pinera Echenique of Chile to thank him for his message of congratulations on his reelection. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing . Then, in the oval office, he met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with 2012 Nobel Prize winners Brian K. Kobilka, Robert J. Lefkowitz, Alvin E. Roth, Lloyd S. Shapley, and David J. Wineland. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he and former Republican Presidential nominee W. Mitt Romney had lunch. November 30 In the morning, the President traveled to Hatfield, PA, where he toured the manufacturing facilities of the Rodon Group . In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to appoint Bob J. Archuleta and Travis Morrison as members of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint V. Ronne Froman as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy. The President announced his intention to appoint Sachin Dev Pavithran as a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. December 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he played golf with former President William J. Clinton, U.S. Trade Representative Ronald Kirk, and Democratic Party fundraiser Terrence R. McAuliffe. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts to attend the 2012 Kennedy Center Honors Gala. Later, they returned to the White House. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Symposium at the National Defense University on December 3. December 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in a question-andanswer session with Twitter users, responding to questions about the national economy. December 4 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Governors from across the country to discuss the national economy. Later, in the Map Room, he taped an interview with Julianna Goldman of Bloomberg Television. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he participated in a roundtable discussion with reporters from progressive media outlets. Then, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. December 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss Federal budget negotiations. The President declared a major disaster in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal aid to supplement district recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 26 through 31. December 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Gov. Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Falls Church, Virginia. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Muhammad Mursi of Egypt to express his concern about the deaths and injuries of opposition protesters in Egypt and emphasize the need for continued democratic transition in Egypt. The White House announced that the President will travel to Redford, MI, on December 10. The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy H. Haahs to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences. The President announced his intention to nominate Morton H. Halperin to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael W. Hail to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Cancer Advisory Board: David Christiani; Judy E. Garber; Liz Jaffe; Beth Karlan; Mack Roach III; and Charles Sawyers. December 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a signing ceremony for H.R. 6063, the Child Protection Act of 2012. December 9 In the afternoon, the President met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. December 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Redford, MI, where, upon arrival in the afternoon, he toured the Detroit Diesel Corporation plant. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. December 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. December 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in a teleconference call with mayors and community leaders from around the Nation to discuss the economy and deficit reduction. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with health care reform advocate Natoma Canfield of Medina, OH, and her sister Connie Anderson. December 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, at the Blair House, the President attended a National Security Council holiday party. Later, in the Diplomatic Room, he participated in separate television interviews with Jim Gardner of WPVI in Philadelphia, PA, Alina Mayo Azze of WLTV in Miami, FL, Frank Vascellaro of WCCO in Minneapolis, MN, and Edie Lambert of KCRA in Sacramento, CA. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. December 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he was notified by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser John O. Brennan of the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. In the afternoon, the President had a signing ceremony for H.R. 6156, the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Permanent Representative to the United Nations Susan E. Rice. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut and Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert S. Mueller III to discuss the shootings in Newtown, CT. The White House announced that the President's planned visit to Portland, ME, on December 19 has been canceled. The President announced his intention to nominate Nicholas C. Geale and Linda A. Puchala to be members of the National Mediation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard J. Engler to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. December 15 The White House announced that the President will travel to Newtown, CT, on December 16. December 16 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Newtown, CT. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. December 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Liberal Democratic Party President Shinzo Abe of Japan to congratulate him on his party's victory in Parliamentary elections and discuss Japan-U.S. relations. December 18 In the morning, the President had a videoconference with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the shootings in Newtown, CT, the situations in Syria, Afghanistan, and Iran, and the Middle East peace process. Then, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Sen. Joseph Manchin III to discuss gun control. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Paul Kagame of Rwanda to discuss the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. December 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Hurricane Sandy from October 27 through November 8. December 20 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he met with wounded U.S. military personnel and their families. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President-elect Park Geun-hye of South Korea to congratulate her on her election victory and discuss South Korea-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to nominate Ernest W. DuBester to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Carol Waller Pope to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and, upon appointment, to designate her as Chair. The President announced his intention to appoint Ruth David and Maria T. Zuber as members of the National Science Board of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to appoint Laura Skandera Trombley as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. December 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President observed a moment of silence in honor of the victims of the December 14 shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Honolulu, HI, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Honolulu, HI, in the evening. The President announced his intention to appoint L. Preston Bryant, Jr., as Chair of the National Capital Planning Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Mohamed A. El-Erian as Chair of the President's Global Development Council. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Global Development Council: Richard C. Blum; Sylvia Mathews Burwell; Esther Duflo; Sarah Beardsley Degnan Kambou; James M. Manyika; William K. Reilly; Steven Schwager; and Smita Singh. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council: Todd A. Fisher; Robert A. Sherman; Andrea Lavin Solow; and Michael A. Stein. December 22 In the morning, upon arrival at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, HI, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Kailua, HI. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 23 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu, HI, to attend a memorial service for the late Sen. Daniel K. Inouye. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 24 During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 25 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, where, in Anderson Hall, they met with servicemembers and their families. Later, they returned to Kailua, HI. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 26 In the afternoon, the President had separate telephone conversations with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, and Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will return to Washington, DC, in the evening. December 28 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, and Senate Minority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. December 29 During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. December 31 During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden, White House Chief of Staff Jacob J. "Jack" Lew, Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs Robert L. Nabors II, and Chief of Staff to the Vice President Bruce Reed to discuss tax reform legislation and the Federal budget. Names: Abbas, Mahmoud; Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, King; Abdullah II, King; Abe, Shinzo; Agnew, David P.; Albright, Jim; Alcock, Andy; Alexander, David; Alford, Edward; Alire, Camila A.; Allan, Mark; Allen, John R.; Anania, Jay N.; Anderson, Connie; Aquino, Benigno, III; Archuleta, Bob J.; Ardito, Joe; Arevalo, Adriana; Armbruster, Thomas H.; Armes, Alan "Jeff"; Armes, Cheri; Armstrong, Warren; Arsht, Adrienne; Asquino, Mark L.; Aune, Bruce; Aung San Suu Kyi; Austin, Wyndi; Ayalde, Liliana; Azze, Alina Mayo; Babauta, Anthony M.; Bach, Stephen G.; Bacharach, Robert E.; Bachman, John; Bahr, Jean; Bair, Bill; Baisden, Michael; Ball, Deborah Lowenberg; Ban Ki-moon; Barcott, Rye; Barefoot, Coy; Barnes, Pemberton Althamese; Barnett, Mark A.; Barrett, Thomas M.; Barzani, Masoud; Beall, Christopher R.; Beauregard, Cari; Bechtle, Nancy H.; Becker, Bidtah; Becker, Steven M.; Becker, Sylvia M.; Beecroft, Robert S.; Behar, Joy; Bell, Colleen B.; Bell, Peter H.; Bentley, Robert J,; Benton, Charles; Benton, David; Berg, Terrence G.; Bernal, Jesus G.; Bernstein, Tom A.; Beshear, Steven L.; Betts, Reginald D.; Biden, Jill T.; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Biden, Joseph R., Jr. ; Bienenstock, Arthur; Biswal, Nisha D.; Black, Anguz; Blackwelder, Bill; Blankinship, Gary; Bleich, Jeffrey L.; Blinken, Tony; Block, Sharon; Bloomberg, Michael R.; Blum, Richard C.; Bodde, Peter W.; Boehner, John A.; Boerio, Bibiana; Bohnett, David C.; Booth, Donald E.; Borisov, Boyko; Borissov, Boyko; Borst, Christopher; Botticelli, Michael P.; Brainard, Lael; Brandau, Christie Pearson; Brandt, Jack M.; Brandt, Rainey R.; Brann, Matthew W.; Brantley, Susan L.; Braun, Rob; Breen, Matthew; Brehm, Ward; Brennan, John O.; Brey, Mariano Rajoy; Breyer, Charles R.; Bridgewater, Pamela E.; Broas, Tim; Brown, Marc; Brown, Marilyn A.; Brown, William M.; Bruce, Giles; Bryant, D. Phillip; Bryant, L. Preston, Jr.; Bryson, John E.; Brzezinski, Mika; Buchanan, Jessica; Buchanan, John; Burke, Marcilynn A.; Burke, Yvonne B.; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Bush, Barbara; Bush, George H.W.; Bush, George W.; Bush, Jeb; Bush, Laura; Cadish, Elissa F.; Calderon Hinojosa, Felipe de Jesus; Calloway, Sway; Cameron, David; Cameron, Paul; Cameron, Samantha G.; Campbell, Piper A.W.; Canfield, Natoma; Capilari, John; Caproni, Valerie E.; Cardin, Benjamin L.; Carlson, Melissa; Carlson, Tim; Carper, Craig; Carson, Johhnie; Carson, Johnnie; Carter, Bruce; Castro, Norberto J.; Catchings, Tamika; Cate, Keith; Cathey, Kimberley; Cathey, Ron; Chacon, Arnold A.; Chaokun Suthee Thammanuwat; Chappell, Sheri P.; Chastain, Brandi; Chavez, Helen F.; Chavez, Paul F.; Chen, Pamela Ki Mai; Ching, Agnelle; Choi, Audrey; Chollet, Derek, H.; Christiani, David; Christie, Christopher J.; Chu, Steven; Clark, Kyle; Clark, Tony; Clarke, Yvette D.; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, William J.; Clyburn, Mignon L.; Cohen, Robert F., Jr.; Colb, Colby; Cole, James; Colfax, Grant; Collins, Paula Robinson; Coloretti, Nani A.; Conaton, Erin C.; Connors, Larry; Cooney, Kevin; Coons, Christopher A.; Cooper, T. Charles; Cope, Marianne; Cordray, Richard A.; Coughlin, Tom; Craner, Lorne W.; Crawford, Stephen; Cretz, Gene A.; Crippes, Christinia; Cristo, Julio Sanchez; Crocker, Ryan C.; Cruzado, Waded; Cuci, Johnathan; Cuningham, James B.; Cunningham, James B.; Cuomo, Andrew M.; Cutler, George; Cutler, Wendy S.; Dale, Kareem A.; Daniels, Mitchell E., Jr.; Darcell, Frankie; David, Ruth; Davis, Amanda; Davis, Brian J.; Davis, Hollani; Dawes, Dominique M.; De Leon, Maria Lopez; De Soto, Steward M.; Deaton, Brady J.; Decker, Dominic; Decker, Joe; Decker, Reese; Decker, Stephanie; Delano, Jon; DeLisi, Scott H.; Delisle, Deborah; Demers, James M.; Desai, Vishakha N.; Desalegn, Hailemariam; Diaz de Leon, Gabriel; Diaz, Miguel H.; Diaz, Oswaldo; Diaz-Balart, Jose; Dick, Shelly D.; Dickinson, Angela T.; Dilley, Dean; Dintermsith, Ted; Doherty, Glen A.; Dolan, Archbishop Timothy M.; Dominique "Da Diva"; Doms, Mark; Donilon, Thomas E.; Donovan, Jayde; Donovan, Joseph B.; Donovan, Shaun L. S.; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; Dorsey, Jennifer A.; Dortch, Vicki; Douglas, Gabby; Dowdell, John E.; Doyle, William P.; Dresselhaus, Mildred S.; Driscoll, Jean; DuBester, Ernest W.; Duflo, Esther; Dungee, Ericka L.; Dungee, William H.; Dunn, Lin; Durkin, Thomas M.; Durkovich, Caitlin; Dyer, John"Buddy," Jr.; Eason, Endia; Eason, William; Edelsonhn, Micki; Eldridge, Joseph; El-Erian, Mohamed A.; Elizabeth II, Queen; Elliott, Susan M.; Engler, Richard J.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Ereli, Adam; Estevez, Alan F.; Evans, Carlos; Evans, V. Lynn; Faga, Martin C.; Failla, Katherine P.; Falcone, Patricia K.; Faleomavaega, Eni F.H.; Fallon, James T., Jr.; Fanning, Eric K.; Farlin, Jennifer; Favreau, Jonathan E.; Fayson, James; Feierstein, Mark; Feighery, Timothy J.; Felger, Victoria F.; Fergin, Judith R.; Ferguson, Mark E.; Ferguson, Mike; Fernandez, Giselle; Ferro, Eddie; Fidler, Tanya M.; Filler, Michael B.; Finrock, Heather; Fisher, Todd A.; Fluke, Sandra K.; Flynn, Terence F.; Foeller, Thomas; Ford, Darryl J.; Foufoula-Georgiou, Efi; Fox, Andy; Fox, William W., Jr.; Francis, Paula; Frankel, Gerald S.; Friedkin, Amy; Friedman, Greg; Froman, Michael; Froman, V. Ronne; Fugate, W. Craig; Fung, Inez Y.; Funger, Norma Lee; Gangopadhyay, Paula; Garber, Judy E.; Garcia, David; Garcia, Jesus; Gardner, Jim; Gaynor, Patrick; Geale, Nicholas C.; Gearan, Mark D.; Geithner, Timothy F.; Genardo, Kim; George Topou V, King; Geraci, Frank P., Jr.; Giffords, Garielle D.; Gilani, Syed Yousuf Raza; Gilder, Earnie; Gillard, Julia E.; Gillespie, Kevin; Gillette, Jodi; Gillibrand, Kirsten E.; Gilson, Christie L.; Ginman, Richard; Glassman, Judy; Glassman, Kimberly K.; Godec, Robert F.; Goldberg, Whoopi; Goldman, Julianna; Gonzales, Kenneth J.; Gordon, Andrew P.; Gordon, Ed; Gottemoeller, Rose; Graham, Megan; Gray, Clyde; Green, Rick; Greenberg, William S.; Gregg, Ingrid A.; Greider, Carol W.; Greig, E.J.; Grey, Robert J.; Griffin, Richard; Griffiths, Douglas M.; Grimm, Paul W.; Groshen, Erica L.; Grossman, Robert I.; Grossmann, Val; Gruca, Terri; Guthrie, Marc D.; Gutierrez, Kris D.; Gutmann, Amy; Haahs, Timothy H.; Hackett, Kenneth F.; Hadi, Abd al-Rabuh Mansur ; Hadi, Abd Rabuh Mansur; Hail, Michael W.; Hainsworth, Jamie A.; Hall, Lisa Green; Halligan, Caitlin J.; Halperin, Morton H.; Ham, Carter; Ham, Carter F.; Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani; Hambright, Pat; Haney, Cecil D.; Hansen, Donald K.; Hardiman, Ann; Harper, Hill; Harper, Stephen; Harper, Stephen J.; Harris, Grant T.; Harris, Josephine "Ann"; Harvey, Steve; Hasselbeck, Elisabeth; Hayes, Ollie; Haza, Oscar; Heath, Jim; Hedrick, Sharon; Heil, Jeff; Heil, Richard; Henderson, James L.; Henrich, Mark F.; Henry, Healy; Herbert, Amber; Herrera, Luis; Hessler-Radelet, Carrie; Hickenlooper, John W.; Hicks, Kathleen H.; Hill, Grant E.; Hillman de Velasquez, Allison A.; Hochberg, Fred P.; Hogan, Steve; Hollande, Francois; Hollingsworth, Laura L.; Holtz, Greta C.; Holway, David J.; Hoppin, Sue; Hrabowski, Freeman A., III; Huebner, David; Huerta, Dolores C.; Huerta, Michael P.; Hughes, Calvin; Hughes, Larry T.; Hun Sen; Inouye, Daniel K.; Irish, Amanda; Irvin, Milton; Itta, Edward S.; Ivie, Nicholas J.; Jackson, Ketanji B.; Jackson, Lisa P.; Jackson, Maria R.; Jacobson, Roberta S.; Jacobson, Tracey A.; Jacoby, Charles H., Jr.; Jaffe, Liz; James, Makila; Jarrett, Valerie B.; Jay, Dana; Jefferson, Karen L.; Jeremic, Vuk; Jindal, Piyush "Bobby"; Johnson Sirleaf, Ellen; Jolie, Angelina; Jolly, Eric J.; Jones, A. Elizabeth; Jones, James J.; Jones, Janet; Jordan, Joseph; Joyner, Tom; Kagame, Paul; Kambou, Sarah Beardsley Degnan; Kang, Emil J.; Karlan, Beth; Karzai, Hamid; Karzai, Zeenat; Kasich, John R.; Kayatta, William J.; Keeb, Abd al-Rahim al-; Kellogg, Clark; Kelly, Claire R.; Kelly, Keith; Kelton, Louise W.; Kendall, Frank, III; Kennedy, Caroline B.; Kenny, Edna; Kenny, Enda; Kieff, F. Scott; Kiir Mayardit, Salva; Kikwete, Jakaya Mrisho; Kim, Daniel Dae; Kim, Sung; Kirby, Michael; Kirk, Ronald; Klick, Rachel; Knabb, Richard; Knowles, Kimberly S.; Kobilka, Brian K.; Koenig, John M.; Komorowski, Bronislaw; Kosich, John; Kosinski, Dorothy; Kotelchuck, David; Krapfl, Jake; Krauskopf, Kelly; Kretschmar, Greg; Krieger, Alex; Krueger, Alan B.; Kwan, Michelle; La Mell, Carl M.; Laliberte, Joe; Laliberte, Patti; Lambert, Edie; Lamm, Dottie; Landrieu, Mary L.; Landrieu, Mitchell J.; Lane, David J.; Laskaris, Alexander M.; Lauer, Matt; Lawrence, Clovia; Leahy, Patrick J.; Leary, William H.; Lee Myung-bak; Lefkowitz, Robert J.; Leibenluft, Jacob; Leigh, Karen; Leno, Jay; Leonardo, John S.; Lepage, G. Peter; Letterman, David; Leval, Susana Torruella; Levi, John G.; Levine, Jeffrey D.; Lew, Jacob J. "Jack"; Lew, Jacob J. “Jack”; Lew, Jacob J."Jack"; Lewis, Anil; Liberi, Dawn M.; Lidinsky, Richard A., Jr.; Lippman, Jonathan; Liu, Miaohong Hsianju; Lizarraga, David C.; Loeb, Susanna; Logan, Vincent G.; Loi, James L.; Long, Bridget Terry; Loranger, Don; Loringer, Cathleen; Love, Reginald; Loveman, Gary W.; Low, Douglas; Lowenberg, Susan E.; Lubchenco, Jane; Lukens, Lewis; Lute, Douglas E.; Lyon, Randy; Mabus, Raymond E.; Macfarlane, Allison M.; Magariaf, Mohamed; Mahurin, C. Peter; Malac, Deborah; Maldonado, Francisco; Maliki, Nuri al-; Malloy, Dannel P.; Manchin, Joseph, III; Mannion, Malachy E.; Manyika, James M.; Maroney, McKayla; Marshall, Colleen; Martin, Harold L., Sr.; Mastromonaco; Mastromonaco, Alyssa; Masumoto, David; Mattei, Norma Jean; Matyas, Paula; McAuliffe, Terrence R.; McCarthy, Deborah Ann; McCarthy, James J.; McConnell, A. Mitchell; McDermott, Williams S.; McDonnell, Robert F.; McDonough, Denis R.; McElveen, Josh; McFarland, Katrina; McGurk, Brett H.; McIntosh, Dean; McIntosh, Don; McIntosh, Richard; McIntosh, Roger; McKee, Craig; McKeon, Brian; McLaughlin, Ali; McLaughlin, Jason; McLeod, Margaret R.; McShane, Michael J.; McWherter, Michael; Meade, Christopher J.; Medina Sanchez, Danilo; Medina, Danilo Sanchez; Mehran, Alex; Meles Zenawi; Melvold, Doug; Merkel, Angela; Merten, Kenneth; Metivier, Gary; Meyer, Elizabeth K.; Michelle, Obama; Mielke, William J.; Mikva, Laurie I.; Miles, Patrick A., Jr.; Miles-LaGrange, Vicki; Miller, Blair; Miller, James C., III; Miller, James N.; Miller, Jason; Mills, Ernestina Naadu; Mills, John Evans Atta; Minnow, Martha L.; Mitchell, Derek J.; Mitchell, Kateri; Mofaz, Shaul; Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince; Monti, Mario; Moore, Raymond P.; Moore, Vicki; Moose, George E.; Morgan, Debra; Morial, Marc H.; Morningstar, Richard L.; Morrison, Denise; Morrison, Toni; Morrison, Travis; Moser, Lauren; Mueller, Robert S., III; Mulkey, Kim; Mull, Stephen D.; Munoz, Cecilia; Mursi, Muhammad; Nabors, Robert L., II; Nagorski, Maria T.; @; Bernstein, Tom A." @; Napolitano, Janet A.; Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, Crown Prince; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Netanyahu, Benzion; Newkirk, Regina; Nguyen, Anhlan P.; Nguyen, H.T.; Nobles, Ryan; Noda, Yoshihiko; Norland, Richard B.; Norris, John; North, Walter; Norton, Jeremiah O.; Nunley, Troy L.; Oakleaf, Ben; Obama, Malia; Obama, Michelle; Obama, Natasha "Sasha"; Obama, Natasha “Sasha”; Obama, Natasha"Sasha"; O'Brien, Archbishop Edwin F.; O'Connell, Beverly Reid; O'Dell, Nancy; Okun, Robert D.; Olguin, Fernando M.; Olson, Richard G.; O'Malley, Martin J.; Oppenheimer, Deborah A.; Orosa, Deidra; Orosa, Mario; Orrick, William H., III; Otte, Jim; Panetta, Leon E.; Paolello, Sheree; Park Geun-hye; Park, Todd; Parker, Elizabeth R.; Paroo, Iqbal; Parsons, Wilma; Pascual, Carlos; Paterno, Joseph V."Jay," Jr.; Paterno, Suzanne P.; Pavithran, Sachin Dev; Peabody, John; Peddicord, Kenneth L.; Peel, Ellen M.; Peisach, Cheryl; Pekala, Mark A.; Pelosi, Nancy; Pena Nieto, Enrique; Peres, Shimon; Perez Molina, Otto; Perez, Thomas E.; Peterson, Mark; Petty, Jule A.; Phelps, Michael F.; Philips, Terry; Phillips, Larry; Phillips, Ronald L.; Phumiphon Adunyadet, King; Pinera Echenique, Sebastian; Pitt, Brad; Pohlad, Rebecca; Pope, Carol Waller; Potter, Lauren; Powell, Colin L.; Powell, Earl A., III; Price, Richard S.; Pride, Curtis; Prince, Joan M.; Pryor, Jill A.; Puchala, Linda A.; Putin, Vladimir V.; Putin, Vladimir, V.; Quinones Alejandro, Nitza I.; Raisman, Aly; Rajoy Brey, Mariano; Ramaswamy, Renee; Ramaswamy, Sonny; Rasmussen, Anders Fogh; Redmond, Leslie; Reed, Bruce; Reed, Frankie A.; Reed, Richard A.; Reid, Harry M.; Reilly, William K.; Remington, Kristen; Restrepo, Luis F.; Revish, Jerry; Rhodes, Benjamin; Rice, Susan E.; Richmond, Geraldine; Richter, Burton; Ries, Marcie B.; Ritch, Joseph H.; Ritsko, Matthew; Roach, Mack, III; Roberts, Robin; Robinson, Marian; Robinson, Marietta S.; Rodriguez, Arturo S.; Roman, Nelson S.; Romans-Hnath, Linda; Romero, Christy; Romero, Rosana; Romney, W. Mitt; Rose, Charles P.; Rose, Charles P., Jr.; Rose, Stephanie M.; Rosen: Dorothea-Maria"Doria"; Rosenberg, Beth J.; Ross, Kyla; Roth, Alvin E.; Rothman, Steven R.; Rousseff, Dilma; Rozman, Maria; Ruemmler, Kathryn; Russell, Daniel A.; Ryan, April D.; Saakashvili, Mikheil; Saban, Cheryl; Saban, Nick; Saldivar, Ramon; Salinas, Maria Elena; Sall, Macky; Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, Prince; Samaras, Antonis; Sanders, Summer; Santos Calderon, Juan Manuel; Santos, Enrique; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Saud al-Faysal bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud; Sawyer, Diane; Sawyers, Charles; Scaffidi, Stephen; Scarborough, C. Joseph; Schlieman, Daniel; Schmehl, Jeffrey L.; Schofield, Lorna G.; Schrage, Elliot J.; Schultz, William B.; Schumer, Charles E.; Schwager, Steven; Scott, Richard L.; Scurry, Latasha; Secada, Walter G.; Shafiq, Ahmed; Shafir, Eldar; Shapley, Lloyd S.; Shaub, Walter M., Jr.; Shaw, William J.; Shea, Michael P.; Shell, Jeffrey; Shepherd, Sherri; Sherman, Robert A.; Shinseki, Eric K.; Shipp, Michael A.; Shively, Charles; Shyu, Heidi; Sieminski, Adam E.; Sievers, Bruce R.; Simmons, Bill; Simpson-Miller, Portia L.; Singh, Charanjeet; Singh, Manmohan; Singh, Smita; Sison, Michele J.; Smerconish, Michael A.; Smith, Gayle E.; Smith, James B.; Smith, Matt; Smith, Patricia G.; Smith, Paul W.; Smith, Russell F., III; Smith, Sean P.; Smith, Trevor; Snow, Steven E.; Snyder, Jim; Soderberg, Nancy E.; Soderberg, Nancy E.; Soler, Maximo; Solis, Hilda L.; Solow, Andrea Lavin; Sopko, John F.; Sowers, John A.; Sowers, Tommy; Sperling, Gene B.; Spoelstra, Erik; Srinivasan, Srikanth; Stafford, Earl W.; Stein, Michael A.; Stein, Robert L.; Steinberg, Donald; Stevens, J. Christopher; Stevens, John Christopher; Stevens, Robert J.; Stewart, Jon; Stewart, Tony; Stockdale, Karyn L.; Stockwell, Ed; Stratton, John G.; Strauss, David M.; Street, EZ; Street, Mike; Sugarman, Lillian; Sullivan, Mark J.; Sullivan, Ralph; Sullivan, Sean; Sulzer, Arthur H.; Susman, Louis B.; Sussman, Louis B.; Svinicki, Kristine L.; Swensen, Karen; Swift, Scott H.; Tantawi, Mohamed Hussein; Taylor, Edward J.; Teitelbaum, Donald G.; Tekakwitha, Kateri; Tenet, George J.; Teshak, Marcia O.; Thiessen, Duane D.; Thisted, Poul Hagen; Thomas, William L.; Thomas-Greenfield, Linda; Thorin, Suzanne E.; Thornhill, Paula G.; Thorning-Schmidt, Helle; Thuman, Scott; Tigar, Jon S.; Tobias, Constance B.; Tobin, Katherine C.; Toigo, Kathie; Tomblin, Earl Ray; Torres, Analisa; Torres-Gil, Fernando; Townsend, Frances Fragos; Townsend, Tracy; Trombley, Laura Skandera; Trottenberg, Polly; Turinsky, Paul J.; Udall, Anne J.; Ullrich, David A.; Underwood, Robert A.; Valencia-Weber, Gloria; Valerio, Loretta R.; Van Duzer, Scott; Van Hollen, Christopher; Van Rompuy, Herman; Vascellaro, Frank; Vasconcelos, Jose Maria"Taur Matan Ruak"; Verrilli, Donald B., Jr.; Verveer, Melanne; Vilsack, Thomas J.; Viso, Olga; Vollrath, Frederick; von Falkenhausen, Lothar; Vorosmarty, Charles J.; Vuong, Quyen N.; Wadhwani, Romesh; Wagner, James W.; Wainscott, Kent; Walker, George B., Jr.; Walker, Mark E.; Walker, Naomi A.; Walker, Scott K.; Walters, Barbara; Ward, Don; Warmoth, Greg; Warren, Jay; Washburn, Kevin K.; Watson, Derrick K.; Wayne, E. Anthony; Wells, Nina M.; Welters, Anthony; West, D. Anthony; Wharton, David B.; Wheeler, Carol; White, Betty M.; White, Pamela A.; White-Scott, Sheryl; Wieber, Jordyn; Wiercinski, Rob; Wilkerson, Patrick J.; Willaredt, Debra S.; Williams, Aaron S.; Williams, Brian; Williams, Danny C., Sr.; Williams-Skinner, Barbara; Willis, Bill; Willis, James S.; Wills, Tom; Wineland, David J.; Wisdom, Kimberlydawn; Woods, Tyrone S.; Wright, Jessica L.; Wright, Joshua D.; Wulff, Ryan; Wynn, Elaine; Yang, Jenny R.; Yanukovych, Viktor; Yayi Boni, Thomas; Yinglak Chinnawat; Yohannes, Daniel W.; Yoon Bong-hee; Young, Emily; Yzaguirre, Raul H.; Zapol, Warren M.; Zardari, Asif Ali; Zenawi, Meles; Zients, Jeffrey D.; Zoback, Mary Lou; Zoebisch, Scott; Zuber, Maria T.; Dempsey, Martin E. Subjects: "Entertainment Tonight" program; "Innocence of Muslims" film, protests; ABC :"World News with Diane Sawyer" program; ABC :/"The View"/ program; ABC :/"The View/" program; ABC, "Good Morning America"; Afghanistan : Abductions, foreign nationals; Afghanistan : Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : Insurgency and terrorist attacks; Afghanistan : International diplomatic efforts; Afghanistan : International Security Assistance Force; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force, commander; Afghanistan : NATO International Security Assistance Force; Afghanistan : NATO, role; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : President Obama's visit; Afghanistan : Reconciliation efforts; Afghanistan : Relations with U.S.; Afghanistan : Strategic partnership agreement with U.S.; Afghanistan : U.S. Ambassador; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Casualties; Afghanistan : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Afghanistan : U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction; African Americans, President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for; African Development Foundation; Agriculture, Department of : Food and Agricultural Development, Board for International; Agriculture, Department of : Food and Agriculture, National Institute of; Agriculture, Department of : Secretary; Air Force, Department of the : Air Force Academy, U.S.; Alabama : Disaster assistance; Alabama : Governor; Alaska : Disaster assistance; Alfalfa Club; American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development, Institute of; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Tribal consultation with Federal Government; American Urban Radio Networks, "The White House Report"; Amtrak; Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corporation); Arc organization; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board; Archives and Records Administration, National : National Historical Publications and Records Commission; Archives and Records Administration, National : Public Interest Declassification Board; Arctic Research Commission; Arizona : 2011 shootings in Tucson; Arizona : Intel Corp. Ocotillo Campus in Chandler; Arizona : President's visit; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Female servicemembers; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Armed Forces, U.S.: Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Nuclear Security Summit; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Security; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Arts :"Let Freedom Ring" celebration; Arts :"Lincoln," White House screening; Arts :"Red Tails," White House screening; Arts :"To Kill a Mockingbird," White House screening; Arts, Commission of Fine; Arts, National Council of the; Arts, National Council on the; Asia : Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); Asia : East Asia Summit; Atlantic Tunas, International Commission for the Conservation of; Australia : Ceremonies commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea; Australia : Prime Minister; Azerbaijan : U.S. Ambassador; Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation; Benin : President; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; Bioethical Issues, Presidential Commission for the Study of; Black Entertainment Television; Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase From People Who Are; Bloomberg Television; Brazil : President; Broadcasting Board of Governors; Budget, Federal : Deficit and national debt; Budget, Federal : Government programs, spending reductions; Building Sciences, National Institute of; Bulgaria : Prime Minister; Bulgaria : Terrorist attack on Israeli tourists in Burgas; Bulgaria : U.S. Ambassador; Burma : Civil society representatives, meeting with President Obama; Burma : President Obama's visit; Burma : President's visit; Burma : Shwedagon Pagoda in Rangoon; Burma : U.S. Ambassador; Burma : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Burundi : U.S. Ambassador; Business and industry : Business leaders, meeting with President; Business and industry : Manufacturing industry :: Advanced manufacturing, promotion efforts; Business and industry : Small businesses :: Promotion efforts; Cabinet : Members, meeting with President; Cabinet : Members, meetings with President; California : Cesar E. Chavez National Monument ; California : Democratic Party events; California : Great Eastern restaurant in San Francisco; California : KABC of Los Angeles; California : KCRA in Sacramento; California : KFSN in Fresno; California : KNSDTV in San Diego; California : Nokia Theatre L.A. Live in Los Angeles; California : President’s visit; California : President's visit; California : President's visits; California : Tahoe Regional Planning Agency; Cambodia : President Obama's visit; Cambodia : President's visit; Cambodia : Prime Minister; Cambodia : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Canada : Prime Minister; Cancer Panel, President's; Capital Planning Commission, National; Caribbean nations : Relations with U.S.; CBS : "CBS Sunday Morning"; CBS : CBS Sports; CBS: "Late Show with David Letterman"; Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board; Chicago : President's visit; Chile : President; Cities, National League of; Civic organizations, meeting with President; Cogdill, Michael; Colombia : Church of San Pedro Claver in Cartagena; Colombia : Free trade agreement with U.S.; Colombia : President; Colombia : President's visit; Colombia : Summit of the Americas; Colombia : W Radio in Bogota; Colorado : ; Colorado :  President's visits; Colorado : Disaster assistance; Colorado : Governor; Colorado : KCNC of Denver; Colorado : KCSU in Fort Collins; Colorado : KDEN in Denver; Colorado : KKTV in Colorado Springs; Colorado : KUSA–TV in Denver; Colorado : President's visit; Colorado : President's visits; Colorado : Romero's Cafe and Catering in Pueblo; Colorado : Shootings in Aurora; Colorado : Southeast Family Center & Armed Services YMCA in Colorado Springs; Colorado : The Sink restaurant and bar in Boulder; Colorado : University of Colorado in Denver; Colorado : University of Denver in Denver; Colorado : Wildfire, damage and recovery efforts; Colorado: Buff Restaurant in Boulder; Columbia : Summit of the Americas in Cartagena; Comedy Central : /"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart"/; Commerce, Department of : Hurricane Center, National; Commerce, Department of : Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National; Commerce, Department of : Secretary; Commerce, Department of : Standards and Technology, National Institute of; Commerce, Department of : Under Secretary for Economic Affairs; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Commerce, international : Global financial markets :: Unrest; Commerce, international : Group of Eight (G–8) nations; Commerce, international : Group of Twenty (G– 20) nations; Communications : News media :: Presidential interviews; Communications : News media, Presidential interviews; Communications : Progressive media outlets, roundtable discussion with President; Communications Commission, Federal; Community Development Advisory Board; Community Service, Corporation for National and; Congo, Democratic Republic of the : Relations with Rwanda; Congress : House of Representatives :: Minority leader; Congress : House of Representatives :: Speaker; Congress : Members, meetings with President; Congress : Senate :: Majority leader; Congress : Senate :: Minority leader; Congress : Senate :: U.S. Senate Youth Program; Connecticut : Governor; Connecticut : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; Connecticut : President's visit; Connecticut : Shootings in Newtown; Connecticut: Disaster assistance; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Consumer Product Safety Commission; Croatia : U.S. Ambassador; Cultural Property Advisory Committee; Cyprus : U.S. Ambassador; Deaths : Doherty, Glen A.; Deaths : George Topou V, King of Tonga; Deaths : Inouye, Sen. Daniel K.; Deaths : Ivie, Nicholas J.; Deaths : Meles Zenawi; Deaths : Mills, John Evans Atta; Deaths : Mills, John Evans Atta, President of Ghana; Deaths : Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia; Deaths : Netanyahu, Benzion; Deaths : Paterno, Joseph V.; Deaths : Smith, Sean P.; Deaths : Stevens, J. Christopher; Deaths : Woods, Tyrone S.; Decorations, medals, and awards : Arts and National Humanities, 2011 National Medal of; Decorations, medals, and awards : Congressional Medal of Honor; Decorations, medals, and awards : Enrico Fermi Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : Nobel Prize; Decorations, medals, and awards : Presidential Medal of Freedom; Decorations, medals, and awards : Purple Heart; Decorations, medals, and awards : Science, National Medal of; Decorations, medals, and awards : Securing Americans' Value and Efficiency (SAVE) Award; Decorations, medals, and awards : TOP COPS awards; Defense and national security : Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program; Defense Nuclear Facilities Board; Defense, Department of : Acquisition, Assistant Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, Principal Deputy Under Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Acquisition, Under Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology.; Defense, Department of : Assistant Secretary for International Security Affairs; Defense, Department of : Combatant commanders, meeting with the President; Defense, Department of : National Defense University; Defense, Department of : Personnel and Readiness, Under Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Policy, Under Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Policy; Defense, Department of : Readiness and Force Management, Assistant Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Reserve Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Defense, Department of : Secretary; Defense, Department of : Under Secretary of the Air Force; Defense, Department of : Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, MD; Defense, Department of the : Secretary; Delaware : Disaster assistance; Delaware: Disaster assistance; Democratic Party : Democratic Governors Association; Democratic Party : Democratic National Committee; Democratic Republic of the Congo : Political unrest and violence; Denmark : Prime Minister; Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal; Development, U.S. Agency for International; Disability, National Council on; Disaster assistance : Alabama; Disaster assistance : Alaska; Disaster assistance : Colorado; Disaster assistance : Connecticut; Disaster assistance : Delaware; Disaster assistance : District of Columbia; Disaster assistance : Florida; Disaster assistance : Hawaii; Disaster assistance : Hurricane Isaac, Federal assistance; Disaster assistance : Kansas; Disaster assistance : Louisiana; Disaster assistance : Maryland; Disaster assistance : Massachusetts; Disaster assistance : Minnesota; Disaster assistance : Mississippi; Disaster assistance : Montana; Disaster assistance : New Hampshire; Disaster assistance : New Jersey; Disaster assistance : New Mexico; Disaster assistance : New York; Disaster assistance : Ohio; Disaster assistance : Oklahoma; Disaster assistance : Oregon; Disaster assistance : Pennsylvania; Disaster assistance : Rhode Island; Disaster assistance : Tennessee; Disaster assistance : Utah; Disaster assistance : Vermont; Disaster assistance : Virginia; Disaster assistance : Washington; Disaster assistance : West Virginia; Disaster assistance : West Virginia ; Disaster assistance : Wisconsin; Disaster assistance: Indiana; Disaster assistance: Kentucky; District of Columbia : Boundary Road Restaurant; District of Columbia : Capitol Area Food Bank; District of Columbia : Democratic Party event; District of Columbia : Democratic Party events; District of Columbia : Disaster assistance; District of Columbia : Ford's Theatre; District of Columbia : Holocaust Memorial Museum, U.S.; District of Columbia : LINCOLN Restaurant; District of Columbia : Mintwood Place restaurant; District of Columbia : Scion restaurant; District of Columbia : Shooting at Family Research Council; District of Columbia : The Dubliner restaurant; District of Columbia : WJLA in Washington; District of Columbia: Disaster assistance; Dominican Republic : President; Dominican Republic : President-elect; Dominican Republic : Relations with U.S.; Economy, national : Economic concerns; Economy, national : Personal finance and financial news site journalists and editors, meeting with President; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Education : 2012 National Teacher of the Year; Education Sciences, National Board for; Education, Department of : Education Sciences, National Board for; Education, Department of : Elementary and Secondary Education, Assistant Secretary for; Education, Department of : Historically Black Colleges and Universities, President's Board of Advisers on; Egypt : Democracy efforts; Egypt : Political unrest and violence; Egypt : President; Egypt : President-elect; Egypt : Relations with U.S.; Egypt : Supreme Council of the Armed Forces; Egypt : Train accident in Assiut; Elections : 2012 Presidential and congressional elections; Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Energy : Gasoline, oil, and natural gas costs; Energy : Oil and gas industry :: Keystone XL Pipeline project; Energy : Solar and wind energy; Energy, Department of : Energy Information Administration, Administrator of; Energy, Department of : Energy Regulatory Commission, Federal; Energy, Department of : Secretary; Environmental Protection Agency : Toxic Substances, Assistant Administrator for; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; ESPN; Estonia : U.S. Ambassador; Ethiopia : Prime Minister; Ethiopia : Relations with U.S.; Europe : European Union :: European Council President; Europe : Financial markets :: Stabilization efforts; Europe : Financial markets :: Stabilization efforts ; Europe : Financial markets :: Unrest; Export Council, President's; Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, President's Advisory Council on; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; Federal Labor-Management Relations, National Council on; Financial Capability, President's Advisory Council on; Fine Arts, Commission of; Fine Arts, U.S. Commission of; Florida : Big Apple Pasta & Pizza Restaurant in Fort Pierce; Florida : Daughter of Zion Junior Academy in Delray Beach; Florida : Democratic Party events; Florida : Disaster assistance; Florida : Fire Station No. 14 in Tampa; Florida : Gators Dockside in Orlando; Florida : Governor; Florida : HOT WPOI of Tampa; Florida : Lynn University in Boca Raton; Florida : OMG! Burgers in Miami; Florida : Ossorio Bakery & Cafe in Cocoa Village; Florida : President's visit; Florida : President's visits; Florida : WCTV of Tallahassee; Florida : West Tampa Sandwich Shop in Tampa & Restaurant; Florida : WFLA of Tampa; Florida : WFTV of Orlando; Florida : WJAN of Miami; Florida : WJXT in Jacksonville; Florida : WLTV in Miami; Florida : WPLG–TV in Miami; Florida : WRTO of Miami; Florida : WTLV/WJXX in Jacksonville; Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States; Foreign policy, U.S. : Civil and human rights, promotion efforts; Foreign policy, U.S. : Diplomatic security, strengthening efforts; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors to the U.S., credentialing ceremony; Foreign policy, U.S. : Foreign Ambassadors, credentialing ceremony; Forida : Lechonera El Barrio restaurant in Orlando; France : President; France : President-elect; France : Terrorist attacks in Toulouse; Gambia, U.S. Ambassador; Georgia : Democratic Party event; Georgia : Lenora Academy in Snellville; Georgia : President's visit; Georgia : The Varsity diner in Atlanta; Georgia : WAGA of Atlanta; Georgia, Republic of : President; Georgia, Republic of : U.S. Ambassador; Germany : Chancellor; Germany : President Obama's visit; Germany : Relations with U.S.; Ghana : President; Ghana : U.S. Ambassador; Google.com; Government Accountability and Transparency Board; Government Accountability and Transparency Board ; Government Ethics, Office of; Government organization and employees : Securing Americans' Value and Efficiency (SAVE) Award; Governors, meeting with President; Great Lakes Fishery Commission, U.S. Section of the; Greece : Deficit and national debt; Greece : Prime Minister; Guatemala : President; Guinea : U.S. Ambassador; Haiti : U.S. Ambassador; Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation; Hawaii : Disaster assistance; Hawaii : Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay; Hawaii : National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu; Hawaii : President's visit; Hawaii: President's visit; Health and Human Services, Department of : Centers for Disease Control; Health and Human Services, Department of : General Counsel; Health and Human Services, Department of : National Institutes of Health :: National Cancer Institute; Health and medical care : Contraception and family planning; Health and medical care : Health insurance reforms; Health and medical care : Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Historically Black Colleges and Universities, President's Board of Advisors on; Holidays and special observances : Christmas; Holidays and special observances : Greek Independence Day; Holidays and special observances : Martin Luther King, Jr., Federal Holiday; Holidays and special observances : Memorial Day; Holidays and special observances : Passover; Holidays and special observances : St. Patrick’s Day; Holidays and special observances : Thanksgiving Day; Holidays and special observances :Veterans Day; Holocaust Memorial Council, U.S.; Holy See (Vatican City) : Canonizations :: Cope, Marianne; Holy See (Vatican City) : Canonizations :: Tekakwitha, Kateri; Homeland Security, Department of : Customs and Border Protection, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of : Emergency Management Agency, Federal; Homeland Security, Department of : Infrastructure Protection, Assistant Secretary for; Homeland Security, Department of : Secret Service, U.S.; Homeland Security, Department of the : Secretary; Housing and Urban Development, Department of : Secretary; Humanities, National Council on; Humanities, National Council on the; Illinios : President's visits; Illinois : Chicago; Illinois : Democratic Party events; Illinois : Martin Luther King Community Center in Chicago; Illinois : NATO Summit in Chicago; Illinois : President's visit; Illinois : President's visits; Illinois : WHBF-TV in Rock Island; India : Prime Minister; Indiana : Disaster assistance; Indiana : Governor; Indiana : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Intel Science Talent Search; Intellectual Disabilities, President's Committee for People with; Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs; Interior, Department of the : Assistant Secretary for Land and Mineral Management; Interior, Department of the : Special Trustee for American Indians; International Development, U.S. Agency for : President's Global Development Council; International Trade Commission, U.S.; Iowa : Antonella's Ristorante & Pizzeria; Iowa : Conveyor Engineering & Manufacturing in Cedar Rapids; Iowa : Democratic Party events; Iowa : Des Moines Register; Iowa : Heil Family Farm in Haverhill; Iowa : Iowa State Fair in Des Moines; Iowa : KCCI–TV in Des Moines; Iowa : KCRG in Cedar Rapids; Iowa : KCRG-TV in Cedar Rapids; Iowa : Kirkwood Community College in Cedar Rapids; Iowa : KTIV in Sioux City; Iowa : KWQC of Davenport; Iowa : President's visit; Iowa : President's visits; Iowa : Pump Haus pub in Cedar Falls; Iowa : Riley's Cafe and Catering; Iowa : TPI Composites Inc. in Newton; Iowa : Tropical Sno shop in Denison; Iowa : University of Iowa in Iowa City; Iowa : WHO of Des Moines; Iowa Maquoketa Sentinel-Press in Maquoketa; Iowa: Charles City Press in Charles City; Iowa: Deb's Ice Cream and Deli in Cedar Rapids; Iowa: Muscatine Journal in Muscatine; Iowa: President's visit; Iowa: The Hawk Eye in Burlington; Iowa: Times-Republican in Marshalltown; Iran : Nuclear weapons development; Iraq : Arab Summit in Baghdad; Iraq : Democracy efforts; Iraq : Kurdistan Regional Government, President; Iraq : Prime Minister; Iraq : Security cooperation with U.S.; Iraq : U.S. Ambassador; Iraq : U.S. Ambassador-designate; Iraq : U.S. military forces :: Deployment; Ireland : Prime Minister; Israel : Gaza conflict; Israel : Gaza, conflict; Israel : President; Israel : Prime Minister; Israel : Prime Minsiter; Israel : Relations with U.S.; Israel : Terrorist attack on Israeli tourists in Burgas, Bulgaria; Israel : Vice Prime Minister; Italy : Prime Minister; J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board; Jamaica : Prime Minister; Jamaica : Relations with U.S.; James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation; Japan : Liberal Democratic Party leader; Japan : Parliamentary elections; Japan : President Obama's visit; Japan : Prime Minister; Japan : Relations with U.S.; Jordan : King; Jordon : King; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and appointments; Judiciary : Federal court nominations and confirmations; Justice, Department of : Assistant Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Associate Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Bureau of Investigation, Federal; Justice, Department of : Deputy Attorney General; Justice, Department of : Federal Bureau of Investigation; Justice, Department of : Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, U.S.; Justice, Department of : Marshals Service, U.S.; Justice, Department of : Solicitor General; Justice, Department of : U.S. attorneys; Justice, Department of the : Marshals Service, U.S.; Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Coordinating Council on; Kansas : Disaster assistance; Kansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Commission; Kentucky : Disaster assistance; Kentucky : Governor; Kentucky : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Kentucky : WLKY of Louisville; Kenya : U.S. Ambassador; Korea : President Obama's visit; Kosovo : U.S. Ambassador; KTVO-TV in Ottumwa; Labor issues : Labor union and progressive leaders, meeting with President; Labor issues : Unions :: United Farm Workers; Labor Relations Authority, Federal; Labor Relations Board, National; Labor, Department of : Labor Statistics, Bureau of; Labor, Department of : Veterans' Employment and Training, Assistant Secretary for; Latvia : U.S. Ambassador; Law enforcement and crime : Gun control; Law enforcement and crime : National Association of Police Organizations TOP COPS awards; Legal Services Corporation; Legislation, enacted : Child Protection Act of 2012; Legislation, enacted : Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012; Liberia : President; Liberia : U.S. Ambassador; Libya : Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi; Libya : President; Libya : Prime Minister; Libya : Relations with U.S.; Libya : U.S. Ambassador; Lithuania : U.S. Ambassador; Louisiana : Democratic Party events; Louisiana : Disaster assistance; Louisiana : Governor; Louisiana : President's visit; Louisiana : WWL of New Orleans; Maine : President's visit; Maldives : U.S. Ambassador; Management and Budget, Office for : Procurement Policy, Federal Administrative for; Management and Budget, Office of : Director; Maritime Commission, Federal; Marshall Islands : U.S. Ambassador; Maryland : Clinton :: Texas Ribs and BBQ; Maryland : Disaster assistance; Maryland : Governor; Maryland : Joint Base Andrews; Maryland : President’s visit; Maryland : President's visit; Maryland : President's visit ; Maryland : President's visits; Maryland : Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda; Maryland : WKYS in Silver Spring; Maryland: Disaster assistance; Massachusetts : Democratic Party event; Massachusetts : Disaster assistance; Massachusetts : Hamersley's Bistro in Boston; Massachusetts : President's visit; Massachusetts: Disaster assistance; Mayors, U.S. Conference of; Medal of Valor Review Board; Mediation Board, National; Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority; Mexico : President; Mexico : President Obama's visit; Mexico : President-elect; Mexico : Relations with U.S.; Michigan : President's visit; Michigan : President's visits; Michigan : WJR in Detroit; Michigan : WMXD in Detroit; Micronesia, U.S. Ambassador; Middle East : Arab-Israeli conflict, peace process; Middle East : Democracy efforts; Millennium Challenge Corporation; Mine Safety Health Review Commission, Federal; Minnesota : Democratic Party event; Minnesota : Disaster assistance; Minnesota : Honeywell manufacturing facility in Golden Valley; Minnesota : President's visit; Minnesota : The Bachelor Farmer restaurant in Minneapolis; Minnesota : WCCO in Minneapolis; Mississippi : Disaster assistance; Mississippi : Governor; Mississippi River Commission; Missouri : KMOV in St. Louis; Missouri : President's visit; Mongolia, U.S. Ambassador; Montana : Disaster assistance; Morris K. and Stewart L. Udall Foundation; Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Scholarship Foundation; Mozambique : U.S. Ambassador; MSNBC, /"Morning Joe/" program; MTV : "Ask Obama Live: An MTV Interview With the President"; Museum and Library Sciences Board, National; Museum and Library Services Board, National; National Drug Control Policy, Office of : Deputy Director; Natural disasters : Colorado, wildfires; Natural disasters : Hurricane Irene; Natural disasters : Hurricane Isaac; Natural disasters : Hurricane Sandy; Natural disasters : Hurricane season, 2012; Natural disasters : Tropical storm Debby; Natural disasters : U.S. drought; Navy, Department of the : Naval Academy, U.S.; NBC :"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon"; NBC :"The Nightly News with Brian Williams"; NBC, "The Tonight Show"; NBC, "Today" show; Nebraska : President's visit; Nepal, U.S. Ambassador; Netherlands, the : U.S. Ambassador; Nevada : Bellagio Las Vegas in Las Vegas; Nevada : Copper Mountain Solar 1 in Boulder City; Nevada : Hoover Dam in Boulder City; Nevada : KBLR–TV in Las Vegas; Nevada : KINC of Las Vegas; Nevada : KLAS of Las Vegas; Nevada : KOLO in Reno; Nevada : KRNV–TV in Reno; Nevada : KSNV of Las Vegas; Nevada : KTVN in Reno; Nevada : President's visit; Nevada : President's visits; Nevada : Settebello restaurant in Henderson; Nevada : Tahoe Regional Planning Agency; Nevada : UPS Las Vegas South in Las Vegas; Nevada : Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort and Spa in Henderson; Nevada: President's visit; New Hampshire : Common Man restaurant in Merrimack; New Hampshire : Democratic Party events; New Hampshire : Disaster assistance; New Hampshire : Mack's Apples in Londonderry; New Hampshire : Nashua Community College in Nashua; New Hampshire : President's visit; New Hampshire : President's visits; New Hampshire : Teamsters Union Local 633 in Manchester; New Hampshire : University of New Hampshire Dairy Bar in Durham; New Hampshire : WGIR in Manchester; New Hampshire : WMUR of Manchester; New Hampshire : WMUR-TV in Manchester; New Hampshire: Disaster assistance; New Hampshire: President's visit; New Jersey : Brigantine Beach Community Center ; New Jersey : Disaster assistance; New Jersey : Governor; New Jersey : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; New Jersey :President's visit; New Jersey, President's visits; New Jersey: Disaster assistance; New Mexico : Disaster assistance; New Mexico : KOB-FM's in Albuquerque; New Mexico : President's visit; New York : 40/40 Club in New York City; New York : Barnard College in New York City; New York : Governor; New York : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; New York : New York University Langone Medical Center in New York City; New York : President’s visit; New York : President's visit; New York : President's visits; New York : University at Albany in Albany; New York: Disaster assistance; New York: Governor; North American Leaders' Summit; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; North Carolina : Daimler Trucks North America in Mount Holly; North Carolina : President's visit; North Carolina : University of North in Chapel Hill; North Carolina : WBTV of Charlotte; North Carolina : WNCN in Raleigh; North Carolina : WRAL of Raleigh; North Carolina : WSOC–TV in Charlotte; Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U.S.; Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board; Oates, Daniel J.; Ohio : Ann's Place restaurant in Akron; Ohio : Bergman Orchards Farm Market in Port Clinton; Ohio : Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland; Ohio : Democratic Party event; Ohio : Disaster assistance; Ohio : Eden Park in Cincinnati; Ohio : Governor; Ohio : Kozy Corners restaurant in Oak Harbor; Ohio : Kretchman's Bakery in Beaver; Ohio : Ohio State University in Columbus; Ohio : Plain Dealer of Cleveland; Ohio : President's visit; Ohio : President's visit.; Ohio : President's visits; Ohio : Rick's City Diner in Toledo; Ohio : Schiller Park in Columbus; Ohio : Summer Garden Food Manufacturing in Boardman; Ohio : Tornadoes, damage and recovery efforts; Ohio : WBNS in Columbus; Ohio : WBNS–TV in Columbus; Ohio : WCMH in Columbus; Ohio : WCPO in Cincinnati; Ohio : WDTN in Dayton; Ohio : West Side Market in Cleveland; Ohio : WEWS of Cleveland; Ohio : WHBC in Canton; Ohio : WHIO in Dayton; Ohio : WHLO in Akron; Ohio : WIZF in Cincinnati; Ohio : WKRC of Cincinnati; Ohio : WLWT in Cincinnati; Ohio : WSYX of Columbus; Ohio : WTAM in Cleveland; Ohio : WTOL of Toledo; Ohio : WXIX-TV in Cincinnati; Ohio : Ziggy's Pub and Restaurant in Amherst; Ohio: President's visit; Ohio: Squirrel's Den in Mansfield; Oklahoma : Disaster assistance; Oklahoma : President's visit; Oman : U.S. Ambassador; Oregon : Democratic Party events; Oregon : Gateway Breakfast House in Portland; Oregon : President's visit; Oregon, disaster assistance; Overseas Private Investment Corporation; Pakistan : President; Pakistan : Prime Minister; Pakistan : Suspected terrorist safe havens; Pakistan : U.S. Ambassador; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : Gaza, conflict; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : Gaza, conflict with Israel; Palestinian Authority and Palestinians : President; Papua New Guinea : U.S. Ambassador; Peace, U.S. Institute of; Pennsylvania : KDKA of Pittsburg; Pennsylvania : President's visit; Pennsylvania : President's visits; Pennsylvania : Rodon Group manufacturing facility in Hatfield; Pennsylvania : WPVI in Philadelphia; Pennsylvania: Disaster assistance; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; People magazine; People with Intellectual Disabilities, President's Committee for; Philippines : President; Poland : President; Poland : U.S. Ambassador; Political unrest and violence; Postal Service, U.S.; Presidency, U.S. : State of the Union Address; President : France; Presidio Trust; Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health, Advisory Group on; Public Interest Declassification Board; Qatar : Amir; Red Cross, American; reddit.com; Religious Freedom, U.S. Commission on International; Rhode Island : Disaster assistance; Rhode Island: Disaster assistance; Russia : Flooding in southern region; Russia : President; Russia : Relations with U.S.; Russia: Prime Minister; Rwanda : President; Rwanda : Relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation; Samoa : Relations with U.S.; Saudi Arabia : Crown Prince; Saudi Arabia : Foreign Affairs Minister; Saudi Arabia : King; Saudi Arabia : Minister of Defense; Saudi Arabia : Relations with U.S.; Science Board, National; Science Foundation, National; Science, President's Committee on the National Medal of; Security Education Board, National; Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's National; Senegal : President-elect; Sentencing Commission, U.S.; Serbia : U.S. Ambassador; Skyline Chili in Cincinnati; Smithsonian Institution : African American History and Culture, National Museum of; Smithsonian Institution : Air and Space Museum, National; Smithsonian Institution : John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; Smithsonian Institution : National Museum of African American History and Culture; Solomon Islands : U.S. Ambassador; Somalia : Abductions, U.S. citizens and other foreign nationals; Somalia : International diplomatic efforts; South Carolina : WYFF of Greenville; South Korea : Demilitarized zone; South Korea : Free trade agreement with U.S.; South Korea : Nuclear Security Summit in Seoul; South Korea : President; South Korea : President Obama's visit; South Korea : President-elect; South Korea : Presidential election; South Korea : Relations with U.S.; South Korea : U.S. Ambassador; South Korea : Yeosu Expo 2012 in Yeosu; South Sudan : President; South Sudan : Relations with Sudan; Spain : Prime Minister; Sports : 2012 Olympic Games; Sports : 2012 Paralympic games; Sports : Baseball; Sports : Basketball; Sports : Football; Sports : Hockey; Sports : NASCAR; Sports : NCAA championship teams; Sports : Olympic Games; Sports : Paralympic Games; Sports : Soccer; Sri Lanka : U.S. Ambassador; State Justice Institute; State, Department of : Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources; State, Department of : Foreign Service, Director General of; State, Department of : Secretary; State, Department of : Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security; @; Elections : 2012 Presidential and congressional elections" @; ; Europe : Financial markets :: Unrest; Sudan : Political unrest and violence; Sudan : Relations with South Sudan; Suriname, U.S. Ambassador; Swaziland : U.S. Ambassador; Syria : Democracy efforts; Syria : Political unrest and violence; Syria : Political unrest and violence ; Tajikistan, U.S. Ambassador; Tanzania : President; Taxation : Payroll tax cut; Taxation : Tax Code, reform; Telemundo; Tennessee : Disaster assistance; Tennessee Valley Authority; Terrorism : Counterterrorism efforts; Terrorism : September 11, 2001, attacks; Texas : KVUE of Austin; Texas : President's visit; Texas: President's visit; Thailand : King; Thailand : President Obama's visit; Thailand : President's visist; Thailand : Prime Minister; Thailand : U.S. Embassy personnel, meeting with President Obama; Thailand : Wat Pho Royal Monastery in Bangkok; Timor-Leste : President; Tonga : King; Trade Commission, Federal; Trade Policy and Negotiations, Advisory Committee for; Trade Representative, Office of the U.S.; Trade, U.S. Court of International; Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP); Transportation, Department of : Federal Aviation Administration; Treasury, Department of : Under Secretary for International Affairs; Treasury, Department of the : General Counsel; Treasury, Department of the : Management, Assistant Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Mint Director; Treasury, Department of the : Policy, Under Secretary for; Treasury, Department of the : Secretary; Troubled Asset Relief Program : Special Inspector General; Turkey : Counterterrorism efforts, cooperation with U.S.; Turkey : Prime Minister; Turkey : Prime Minsiter; Turkey : Relations with U.S.; Turkey : Terrorist attack in Bingol Province; Turkey : Trade with U.S.; Twitter; Uganda : U.S. Ambassador; Ukraine : Nuclear materials, security and removal efforts; Ukraine : President; United Arab Emirates : Abu Dhabi :: Crown Prince; United Kingdom : 2012 Olympic Games in London; United Kingdom : 2012 Paralympic Games in London; United Kingdom : 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London; United Kingdom : Prime Minister; United Kingdom : Queen; United Kingdom : Security cooperation with U.S.; United Kingdom: Prime Minister; United Kingdon : 2012 Olympic Games in London; United Nations : General Assembly; United Nations : Secretary-General; United Nations : U.S. Permanent Representative; United Nations : U.S. Representative; United Nations : U.S. Representatives :: U.N. Agencies for Food and Agriculture; Univision : "Noticiero" program; Unsworth, John; Urban League, National; USA Today newspaper; Utah : Disaster assistance; Valles Caldera Trust; Vanuatu : U.S. Ambassador; Vermont : Disaster assistance; Vermont : President's visit; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Assistant Secretary of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs; Veterans Affairs, Department of : Secretary; Veterans' Appeals, Board of; Veterans Claims, U.S. Court of Appeals for; Vietnam Education Foundation; Virgina : President's visit; Virginia : Arlington National Cemetery; Virginia : Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington; Virginia : Berry's Produce stand in Mechanicsville; Virginia : Democratic Party events; Virginia : Disaster assistance; Virginia : Fire Station No. 14 in Norfolk; Virginia : Governor; Virginia : Green Run High School in Virginia Beach; Virginia : nTelos Wireless Pavilion in Charlottesville; Virginia : One More Page Books; Virginia : President's visit; Virginia : President's visits; Virginia : President's visit; Virginia : Vermilion Restaurant in Alexandria; Obama, Michelle; Virginia : Rick's Cafe in Virginia Beach; Virginia : Rolls-Royce Crosspointe in Petersburg; Virginia : WAVY of Portsmouth; Virginia : WBTJ in Richmond; Virginia : WCVE in Richmond; Virginia : WDBJ in Roanoke; Virginia : WINA in Charlottesville; Virginia : WKJS of Richmond; Virginia : WOWI of Norfolk; Virginia : WSLS-TV of Roanoke; Virginia : WVEC-TV in Norfolk; Virginia : WWBT-TV in Richmond; Virginia: Disaster assistance; Virginia: President's visit; Virginia: VFW Hall 3219 in Hampton; Virginian : Virginian-Pilot of Norfolk; Virigina : President's visit; Washington : Boeing Co. in Everett; Washington : Democratic Party events; Washington : Disaster assistance; Washington : President's visit; West Virginia : Disaster assistance; West Virginia : Governor; West Virginia : Hurricane Sandy, damage and recovery efforts; West Virginia: Disaster assistance; Western Hemisphere : Summit of the Americas; Whaling Commission, International; White House : Vice President; White House :Office : Assistants to the President :: Intergovernmental Affairs, Director of; White House Office : African Americans, White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for; White House Office : AIDS Policy, Office of National, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Chief Technology Officer; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Counsel; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy Executive Secretary and Chief of Staff of the National Security Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Deputy Chief of Staff; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security, Deputy Assistant to the President for; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Legislative Affairs; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Manufacturing Policy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser for International and Economic Affairs, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: National Security Adviser, Deputy; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Security Adviser, National; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Senior Policy Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Senior Adviser; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Special Assistant and Coordinator for South Asia; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: Speechwriting, Director; White House Office : Assistants to the President :: White House Counsel; White House Office : Assistants to the Vice President :: National Security Adviser; White House Office : Chief of Staff; White House Office : Deputy Chief of Staff; White House Office : Domestic Policy Council; White House Office : Domestic Policy Council, Senior Adviser for Native American Affairs; White House Office : Economic Council, National; White House Office : Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, President's Advisory Council on; White House Office : Insourcing American Jobs, White House Forum on; White House Office : Interns; White House Office : Jobs and Competitiveness, President's Council on; White House Office : Science and Technology Policy, Office of; White House Office : Science and Technology, President's Council of Advisors on; White House Office : Security Council, National; White House Office : Telecommunications Advisory Committee, President's National Security; White House Office : Vice President; White House Office : Women and the Economy, White House Forum on; White House science fair; Wisconsin : Disaster assistance; Wisconsin : Governor; Wisconsin : Master Lock Co. in Milwaukee; Wisconsin : President's visit; Wisconsin : President's visits; Wisconsin : Shootings in Brookfield; Wisconsin : Shootings in Oak Creek; Wisconsin : Usinger's Famous Sausage store in Milwaukee; Wisconsin : WBAY in Green Bay; Wisconsin : WISN of Milwaukee; Wisconsin : WISN–TV in Milwaukee; Wisconsin, President's visits; Women and girls : Women's organizations, meeting with President; Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; World Trade Center; Yemen : President; Yemen : U.S. Embassy in Sanaa; YouTube.com; Zimbabwe : U.S. Ambassador. 