Administration of Barack Obama, 2012 Letter to Congressional Leaders on the War Powers Resolution Report for Chad December 29, 2012 Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:) Due to the deteriorating security situation in the Central African Republic and the potential threat to U.S. citizens, U.S. embassy personnel and several private U.S. citizens were evacuated from Bangui, Central African Republic on December 27, 2012. In addition, at approximately 5:20 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on December 27, a stand-by response and evacuation force of approximately 50 U.S. military personnel from U.S. Africa Command deployed to Chad to support the evacuation of U.S. embassy personnel and U.S. citizens from the Central African Republic. Although equipped for combat, this stand-by security force was deployed solely for the purpose of protecting U.S. citizens and property, if necessary, until the U.S. embassy personnel and private U.S. citizens have been safely evacuated from the Central African Republic. This action has been directed consistent with my responsibility to protect U.S. citizens both at home and abroad, and in furtherance of U.S. national security and foreign policy interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct U.S. foreign relations and as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive. I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the Congress fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law 93–148). I appreciate the support of the Congress in this action. Sincerely, BARACK OBAMA NOTE: Identical letters were sent to John A. Boehner, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and Patrick J. Leahy, President pro tempore of the Senate. Categories: Communications to Congress : Chad, War Powers Resolution report, letter. Subjects: Central African Command : Political unrest and violence; Central African Republic : U.S. citizens and Embassy personnel, evacuation; Chad : U.S. military detachment; Defense, Department of : Africa Command, U.S. DCPD Number: DCPD201200979. 