Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Statement on Congressional Passage of the USA FREEDOM Act June 2, 2015 For the past 18 months, I have called for reforms that better safeguard the privacy and civil liberties of the American people while ensuring our national security officials retain tools important to keeping Americans safe. That is why, today, I welcome the Senate's passage of the USA FREEDOM Act, which I will sign when it reaches my desk. After a needless delay and inexcusable lapse in important national security authorities, my administration will work expeditiously to ensure our national security professionals again have the full set of vital tools they need to continue protecting the country. Just as important, enactment of this legislation will strengthen civil liberty safeguards and provide greater public confidence in these programs, including by prohibiting bulk collection through the use of section 215, FISA pen registers, and national security letters and by providing the American people with additional transparency measures. I am gratified that Congress has finally moved forward with this sensible reform legislation. I particularly applaud Senators Leahy and Lee as well as Representatives Goodlatte, Sensenbrenner, Conyers, and Nadler for their leadership and tireless efforts to pass this important bipartisan legislative achievement. NOTE: The statement referred to H.R. 2048. Categories: Statements by the President : Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ensuring Effective Discipline Over Monitoring Act of 2015 (USA FREEDOM Act), Congressional passage. Names: Conyers, John J.; Goodlatte, Robert W.; Leahy, Patrick J.; Lee, Michael S.; Nadler, Jerrold L.; Sensenbrenner, F. James, Jr. Subjects: Civil rights : Privacy; Defense and national security : Electronic surveillance program; Legislation, proposed : Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ensuring Effective Discipline Over Monitoring Act of 2015 (USA FREEDOM Act); Legislation, proposed : Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ensuring Effective Discipline Over Monitoring Act of 2015. DCPD Number: DCPD201500412. 