Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Memorandum of Disapproval Regarding Legislation Concerning the National Labor Relations Board Rule on Representation Case Procedures March 31, 2015 S.J. Res. 8 would overturn the National Labor Relations Board's recently issued "representation case procedures" rule and block modest but overdue reforms to simplify and streamline private sector union elections. Accordingly, I am withholding my approval of this resolution. (The Pocket Veto Case, 279 U.S. 655 (1929)). Workers need a strong voice in the workplace and the economy to protect and grow our Nation's middle class. Unions have played a vital role in giving workers that voice, allowing workers to organize together for higher wages, better working conditions, and the benefits and protections that most workers take for granted today. Workers deserve a level playing field that lets them freely choose to make their voices heard, and this requires fair and streamlined procedures for determining whether to have unions as their bargaining representative. Because this resolution seeks to undermine a streamlined democratic process that allows American workers to freely choose to make their voices heard, I cannot support it. To leave no doubt that the resolution is being vetoed, in addition to withholding my signature, I am returning S.J. Res. 8 to the Secretary of the Senate, along with this Memorandum of Disapproval. BARACK OBAMA The White House, March 31, 2015. NOTE: The memorandum referred to Secretary of the Senate Julie E. Adams. Categories: Bill Signings and Vetoes : National Labor Relations Board, legislation overturning rule on representation case procedures, memorandum of disapproval. Names: Adams, Julie E. Subjects: Congress : Senate :: Secretary; Labor issues : Unions :: Formation and representation; Labor issues : Unions :: Labor movement and organized labor; Labor Relations Board, National; Legislation, proposed : National Labor Relations Board rule on representation case procedures, legislation overturning. DCPD Number: DCPD201500216. 