Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Digest of Other White House Announcements December 31, 2015 The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation. January 1 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Hanauma Bay, HI. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Kailua, HI, where at Island Snow, they purchased shave ice and greeted customers and staff. Later, they returned to their vacation residence. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Honolulu, HI. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. Also in the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Governor Andrew M. Cuomo to extend his and the First Lady's condolences on the passing of the Governor's father, former Governor Mario M. Cuomo of New York. January 2 In the morning, the President traveled Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay. Also in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid to wish him a full and speedy recovery from injuries sustained while exercising. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua.  In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Honolulu, HI. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia will return to Washington, DC, on January 3. January 3 In the morning, the President traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he and his daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu. Then, they stopped to visit the President's sister Maya Soetoro-Ng at her home. Later, they traveled to Kailua, where they visited musician Eddie Vedder and his family at their home. Then, they returned to their vacation residence. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. January 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with his senior advisers. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy to thank him for his leadership and commitment to Italy-U.S. relations, commend him for his dedication to the European Union and U.S.–EU cooperation, and discuss the economic situation in Europe. He also had a telephone conversation with President Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia to congratulate him on his election victory under Tunisia's new constitution, commend Tunisians for their transition to democracy, reiterate U.S. commitment to assist Tunisian efforts to strengthen national security and increase economic opportunity, and invite President Caid Essebsi to the White House. The White House announced that the President will travel to Wayne, MI, on January 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Phoenix, AZ, on January 7. January 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President had a working lunch with President Enrique Peña Nieto. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Charles T. Hagel. The White House announced that the President, Vice President Joe Biden, and his wife Jill T. Biden will travel to Knoxville, TN, and Clinton, TN, on January 9. The President announced his intention to nominate Allan R. Landon to be a Governor on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. January 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He also received a briefing on the attack carried out by two gunmen against the Charlie Hebdo newspaper staff in Paris. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Wayne, MI. While en route aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to offer his condolences for the loss of life, express solidarity with the French people, and offer assistance in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Paris. Upon arrival in Wayne, the President toured the Ford Motor Company Michigan Assembly Plant with Executive Chairman William C. Ford, Jr., Chief Executive Officer Mark Fields, Plant Manager Phillip Calhoun, and employee Mia Dew. He also greeted U.S. military veteran Ramone Davis, who served in Iraq and Afghanistan and works at the assembly plant. Later, he traveled to Phoenix, AZ, arriving in the evening. In the evening, upon arrival in Phoenix, the President traveled to Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak Resort, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2014 National Basketball Association Champion San Antonio Spurs to the White House on January 12. The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and tornadoes on December 23, 2014. January 8 In the morning, the President traveled to Nueva Villas at Beverly, a single-family housing development owned by the local nonprofit Chicanos Por La Causa, Inc., where he greeted residents. Then, he traveled to Central High School, where he met with former Rep. Gabrielle D. Giffords and her husband Mark E. Kelly to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the Tucson shootings. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Sen. Barbara Boxer to discuss her decision not to seek reelection and thank her for years of service in both Chambers of Congress. He also had a teleconference call with his national security team to receive a briefing on terror threats and an update on the ongoing investigation into the terrorist attack against the Charlie Hebdo newspaper staff in Paris. Then, he visited the French Embassy, where he signed a condolence book for the victims of the attack in Paris and observed a moment of silence with France's Ambassador to the U.S. Gerard Araud. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia Cahill to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The President announced his intention to nominate Walter Hood and Diane Rodriguez to be members of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced his intention to nominate Kristen Kulinowski to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Kristen Sarri to be Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management, and Budget at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to appoint Brian E. Argrett as a member of the Community Development Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara B. Franklin and Edward F. Hartfield as members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel at the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to appoint William H. Leary as a member of the Public Interest Declassification Board. January 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. He also received an update on the ongoing investigation into the terrorist attack against the Charlie Hebdo newspaper staff in Paris. Later, he traveled to Knoxville, TN, arriving in the afternoon. While en route aboard Air Force One, the President met with Sens. A. Lamar Alexander, Jr., and Robert P. Corker, Rep. John J. Duncan, Jr., Under Secretary of Education Theodore Mitchell, and Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council James Kvaal. In the afternoon, the President and Vice President Joe Biden traveled to Clinton, TN, where they toured the Techmer PM, LLC, production facility with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John R. Manuck. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a conversation with Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco to discuss the ongoing investigation into the terrorist attack against the Charlie Hebdo newspaper staff in Paris. The President announced his intention to appoint David S. Cohen as Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. The President announced his intention to appoint John H. Hankinson as Federal Representative of the U.S. to the Sabine River Compact Administration. January 10 The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom on January 15 and 16. January 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the status of P–5-plus-1 negotiations aimed at preventing Iran's acquisition of a nuclear weapon and underscore U.S. commitment to Israel's security. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cedar Falls, IA, on, January 14. January 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Urban Meyer of the Ohio State University football team to congratulate him on his team's first-ever National Championship. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Juan Evo Morales Ayma as President of Bolivia in La Paz, Bolivia on January 21: Tomasz P. Malinowski (head of delegation); Peter M. Brennan; and Alejandra Y. Castillo. January 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organization (AFL–CIO) President Richard L. Trumka and United Auto Workers (UAW) President Dennis Williams. Later, he traveled to Cedar Falls, IA.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. January 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President signed a memorandum on modernizing Federal leave policies for childbirth, adoption, and foster care. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss international financial assistance for Ukraine and the situation in eastern Ukraine. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD. Later, he traveled to the Hilton Baltimore hotel, where he attended the Senate Democratic Issues Conference.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President had a working dinner with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom.  January 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they had a meeting with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. In the afternoon, in the Family Theater, the President hosted a screening of the film "Selma" for cast and crewmembers. January 17 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the commemoration of the70th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in Oświęcim, Poland, on January 27: Jacob J. Lew (head of delegation); Stephen D. Mull; Crystal Nix-Hines; David Saperstein; Charles A. Kupchan; Nicholas Dean; Aviva Sufian; Israel Arbeiter; Irene Weiss; and David Harris. January 18 The White House announce that the President will travel to Boise, ID, on January 21. January 19 In the afternoon, at the Boys & Girls Club of Greater Washington, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Malia particapted in a service project to promote voluntarism on Martin Luther King, Jr., Day. White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett, Cabinet Secretary Broderick Johnson, and Corporation for National and Community Service Chief Executive Officer Wendy Spencer also attended. The White House announced that the President will travel to Lawrence, KS, on January 21. January 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Denver, CO, resident Carolyn Reed, St. Anthony, MN, resident Rebekah Erler, Kansas City, MO, resident Victor L. Fugate, Jr., Woodland Hills, CA, resident Katrice Mubiru, who had written letters to the President and will join Mrs. Obama and Jill T. Biden as guests for the State of the Union Address. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the ongoing investigations into the January 7–8 terrorist attacks in Paris, the situation in eastern Ukraine and continued international sanctions against Russia, efforts to support elections in Nigeria and counter Boko Haram terrorist organization, ongoing negotiations to prevent Iran's acquisition of a nuclear weapon, and recent developments in Israeli-Palestinian relations. January 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Boise, ID, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Boise State University, where he toured the facilities of the New Product Development Lab with College of Engineering Dean Amy J. Moll. Then, he met with Naghmeh Abedini, wife of Saeed Abedini, a U.S. pastor inmprisoned by the Iranian Government, and their children Jacob and Rebekka. Later, he traveled to Topeka, KS, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan to discuss their shared interest in seeking a resolution to the situation in eastern Ukraine and Kazakhstan-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President traveled to the Holiday Inn in Lawrence, KS, where he remained overnight. January 22 In the morning, the President traveled to the Community Children's Center, where he toured a classroom and visited with teachers, staff, and students. Then, he traveled to the Anschutz Sports Pavilion at the University of Kansas, where he met with Bill Self, head coach of the men's basketball team, and members of the team. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Topeka, KS, where prior to departure from Forbes Field Air National Guard Base, he visited with Lt. Col. Douglas Pratt, USAF, a retiring Chief Presidential Flight Support officer, and his children Brennan and Lindsay. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. Later in the afternoon, in the East Room, the President participated in separate live interviews with YouTube hosts Hank Green, GloZell Green, and Bethany Mota.  During the day, the President received regular updates on the situation in Yemen and the security of U.S. Embassy and civilian staff there. The President announced his intention to nominate Stan Meiburg to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Stuart F. Delery to be Associate Attorney General. The President announced his intention to nominate Rich Julius to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph P. Riley, Jr. as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. The President announced his intention to appoint Tiffany Dena Loftin as a member of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for African Americans.  The President announced his intention to appoint Jim W. Balsiger as a U.S. Commissioner on the International Pacific Halibut Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Gordon "Jeff" Fassett as the Federal Commissioner on the Red River Compact Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Mark Scarano as an Alternate Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission. January 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. January 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Ramstein Air Base, Germany, arriving in the evening. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to express his condoloences for the death of King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud and discuss his plan to visit Saudi Arabia on January 27 and offer condolences on behalf of the United States. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to New Delhi, India, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will travel to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on January 27. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Edgar Lungu as President of Zambia in Lusaka, Zambia, on January 25: Sarah Sewall (head the delegation); Eric T. Schultz; and Deborah L. Birx.  January 25 In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Rashtrapati Bhavan Presidential palace, where he participated in an official arrival ceremony with President Pranab Mukherjee of India. Then, he traveled to the Raj Ghat memorial to Mahatma Gandhi, where he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony and tree planting. Later, he traveled to the Hyderabad House, where he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India had a working lunch. Later in the afternoon, also at the Hyderabad House, the President and Prime Minister Modi participated in a walk and talk and had tea. Then, also at the Hyderabad House, they had an expanded bilateral meeting. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to offer his condolences for the murder of Japanese citizen Haruna Yukawa by members of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization in Syria, convey his appreciation for Japan's contributions of humanitarian assistance to the Middle East region, and discuss Japan-U.S. relations. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Rashtrapati Bhavan Presidential palace, where they viewed a cultural performance. Later, they traveled to the ITC Maurya, New Delhi hotel, where they remained overnight. January 26 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Rajpath Saluting Base, where they viewed a parade in commemoration of India's Republic Day. Also in the morning, he received a briefing on the winter storm heading into the Mid-Atlantic region of the U.S. In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to the ITC Maurya hotel. Later, at the ITC Maurya, New Delhi hotel, he met with Congress Party leaders. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Rashtrapati Bhavan Presidential palace, where, in the Mughal Gardens, they attended a reception hosted by President Pranab Mukherjee of India. Later, they returned to the ITC Maurya, New Delhi hotel. Later, he traveled to the Taj Palace, New Delhi hotel, where he participated in a roundtable discussion with chief executive officers of Indian and U.S. businesses and government leaders. In the evening, the President returned to the ITC Maurya. New Delhi hotel. The WHite House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, to attend the House Democratic Issues Conference on January 29. January 27 In the morning, the President traveled to the Siri Fort Auditorium, where he met with 2014 Nobel Prize winner Kailash Satyarthi, children's rights advocate and founder of Bachpan Bachao Andolan, and other social justice advocates. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to the ITC Maurya hotel, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President taped an interview with Fareed Zakaria of CNN's "Fareed Zakaria GPS" program for later broadcast. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where they were greeted at Riyadh King Khalid International Airport by King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia and other Saudi officials. Later in the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to the Erga Palace in Wadi Hanifa, where they had dinner with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, Russia's support for the separatists and failure to fulfill its commitment under the Minsk agreement, and the importance of continued international financial assistance for Ukraine. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where they were greeted at Riyadh King Khalid International Airport by Crown Prince Muqrin bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, Deputy Crown Prince Muhammad bin Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, and Governor of Riyadh Province Turki bin Abdallah Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Then, they traveled to Ramstein Air Base, Germany. Later in the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. The President announced the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to offer condolences to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia on the death of the King Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on January 27: Barack Obama (head of delegation); Joseph W. Westphal: John F. Kerry; John S. McCain III; Mark R. Warner; Nancy Pelosi; Eliot L. Engel; Ami Bera; Joseph Crowley; Valerie B. Jarrett; Susan E. Rice; John D. Podesta; Anita Decker Breckenridge; Christina M. Tchen; Jennifer M. Palmieri; Benjamin J. Rhodes; Lisa O. Monaco; Joshua R. Earnest; Chase Cushman; Peter A. Selfridge; John O. Brennan; Melissa Winter; Lloyd J. Austin III; James A. Baker III; Condoleezza Rice; Brian Deese; Brent Scowcroft; Samuel R. "Sandy" Berger; Stephen J. Hadley; and Frances Fragos Townsend. The President declared a major disaster for the Soboba Band of Luiseño Indians and ordered Federal aid to supplement the Tribe's efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, and mudslides from December 4 through 6, 2014. January 28 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of Greece to congratulate him on his recent election victory and discuss continued economic reforms in Greece and Greece-U.S. relations.  January 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2014 National Hockey League Champion Los Angeles Kings and the 2014 Major League Soccer Cup Champion LA Galaxy to honor the teams on February 2.  January 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with members of the Social and Behavioral Sciences Team of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. January 31 In the afternoon, at the home of Vernon E. Jordan, Jr., the President and White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett  attended the Alfalfa Club luncheon.  February 1 In the afternoon, in the White House Kitchen, the President participated in a live interview with Savannah Guthrie for NBC's "Super Bowl XLIX Pre-Game Show" program. Then, in the Map Room, he taped a second interview with Ms. Guthrie for NBC's "Today" program for later broadcast. February 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, at the Department of Homeland Security, he toured the Operations Center with Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson and Operations and Planning Director Richard M. Chávez,  and  greeted  staff. In the afternoon, the President returned to the White House. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will welcome Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on February 9. February 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President, Vice President Biden, and Secretary of State John F. Kerry met with King Abdullah II of Jordan to discuss the execution of Jordanian pilot Moaz al-Kasasbeh by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. The White House announced that the President will travel to Indianapolis, IN, on February 6. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm from December 9 through 12, 2014. February 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with 14 American Muslim leaders to discuss domestic, national security, and foreign policy issues. In the evening, on the State Floor, the President hosted a reception for new Members of Congress. The President announced that he has nominated Eileen Maura Decker to be U.S. attorney for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated John W. Huber to be U.S. attorney for the District of Utah. The President announced that he has nominated Waverly D. Crenshaw, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Lawrence J. Vilardo to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. February 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Nadia Lopez, principal, and Vidal Chastanet, student, of Mott Hall Bridges Academy, and photographer Brandon Stanton of Humans of New York. Then, also in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach William S. Belichick of the National Football League's New England Patriots to congratulate him on his team's victory in Super Bowl XLIX. The President announced his intention to appoint Tony Scott as Federal Chief Information Officer and Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to appoint Ajay Banga as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. The President announced his intention to appoint Frankie M. Freeman and Ross Romero as members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Chrysten Lambert as Federal representative of the Klamath River Compact Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Earl W. Stafford as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. February 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Indianapolis, IN. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. February 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with Chancellor Merkel. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco, CA, on February 12. February 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with members of the Congressional Black Caucus to discuss the national economy, criminal justice reform, and U.S. participation in international trade negotiations and agreements. Later, in the Map Room, he participated in an interview with Ben Smith of BuzzFeed News. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine and express his support for the recent cease-fire and peace negotiations. He also had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, reiterate U.S. support for Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity, and emphasize the importance of President Putin seizing the opportunity presented by peace talks with France, Germany, and Ukraine. He also had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss China-U.S. relations. The President announced his designation of John Emerson as a member of the Presidential delegation to attend the funeral services of former President Richard von Weizsacker of Germany in Berlin, Germany, on February 11. February 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with private sector and foundation leaders to thank them for their support in working to contain the Ebola epidemic in West Africa and emphasize the need to improve detection and prevention efforts going forward. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense, Charles T. Hagel.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Palm Springs, CA, on February 14. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic as President of Croatia in Zagreb, Croatia, on February 15: Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall (head of delegation); Kenneth H. Merten; Hoyt B. Yee; and Capricia Penavic Marshall. The President announced his intention to nominate Sarah E. Mendelson to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations Economic and Social Council of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to appoint Peter J. Beshar as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced his intention to appoint Kathryn Brinsfield as Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs and Chief Medical Officer at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Allen Croff as a member of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Todd McCracken as a member of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. February 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA. Then, he traveled to the Fairmont San Francisco hotel, where he remained overnight. During the day the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan to commend Pakistan's counterterrorism activities and progress in improving relations with Afghanistan and discuss joint efforts to achieve stability in the region and Pakistan-U.S. relations. February 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Stanford, CA. In the afternoon, in the Memorial Auditorium at Stanford University, the President participated in a panel discussion with business leaders. Then, also in the Memorial Auditorium, he participated in a roundtable discussion with Stanford students. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA.  In the evening, the President returned to the Fairmont San Francisco hotel, where he remained overnight. February 14 In the morning, in the President traveled to the Sunnylands Estate in Rancho Mirage, CA. En route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to discuss the ongoing violence in eastern Ukraine, the cease-fire scheduled to begin at midnight, and the importance of implementing protocols of the Minsk agreement. In the evening, the President traveled to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight. February 15 In the morning, the President traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA. In the evening, the President returned to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will return to Washington, DC, on February 16. February 16 In the morning, the President traveled to the Porcupine Creek Golf Course. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of Denmark to offer his condolences for the deaths of two Danish citizens and the injuries of several others in the February 14 terrorist attacks in Copenhagen, discuss the importance of confronting attacks on freedom of expression and acts of anti-Semitic violence, and welcome Denmark's participation in the upcoming White House Summit on Countering Violent Extremism. February 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell to receive an update on enrollment in health insurance exchanges under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Later, also in the Oval Office, he visited with outgoing U.S. Agency for International Development Rajiv D. Shah and his family. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Sergio Mattarella of Italy to congratulate him on his recent election victory and discuss Italy-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on February 19. February 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. February 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President signed the proclamation establishing the Browns Canyon National Monument. Later, he traveled to Chicago, IL, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence, where he received an update on the progress of the Obama Foundation's plans for library siting from board member Martin Nesbitt. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. February 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, at the Hyatt Regency, Washington on Capitol Hill hotel, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. During the day, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President and Mrs. Obama recorded a video to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the "Let's Move!" initiative. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he taped an StoryCorps interview with Noah McQueen, a mentee in the White House "My Brother's Keeper" initiative. The White House announced that the President will welcome Amir Tamim bin Hamad al Thani of Qatar on February 24. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia on February 27. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prince Charles of Wales and Duchess Camilla of Cornwall on March 19. February 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on February 25. February 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with State and local law enforcement officials to discuss efforts to build trust in communities and strengthen public safety. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he and Vice President Biden met with Members of Congress to discuss criminal justice reform. During the day, the President participated in a signing ceremony for the proclamation establishing the Honouliuli National Monument.  The President announced his intention to nominate Katherine Simonds Dhanani to be Ambassador to Somalia. The President announced his intention to nominate Amias Gerety to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Cono R. Namorato to be Assistant Attorney General for the Tax Division, Department of Justice. The President announced his intention to nominate Anne E. Wall to be Deputy Under Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of the Treasury, and upon appointment, to be designated Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs. The President announced his intention to appoint Laura DeBonis and Solomon B. Watson IV as members of the Public Interest Declassification Board. The President announced his intention to appoint John W. Keker as a member of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust. The President announced his intention to appoint Joan E. Silber as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. February 25 In the morning, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with immigration advocacy leaders to provide an update on the administration's executive actions to reform the U.S. immigration system. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL. Upon arrival, he traveled to Florida International University, where in the Graham Center, he taped a "Five Things" segment with José Díaz-Balart of MSNBC's "Rundown With José Díaz-Balart" program for later broadcast. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. En route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with C. Douglas McMillon, president and chief executive officer of Walmart, to commend him on increasing wages for Walmart's employees.  February 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, he met with African American faith and civil rights leaders to discuss issues facing their communities, including criminal justice, education, health care, and economic development. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in separate "Live From the White House" interviews with local television anchors from Kerstin Kealy of WDAY in Fargo, ND, Kris Ketz of KMBC in Kansas City, MO, Laural Porter of KGW in Portland,OR, and Eric Johnson of KOMO in Seattle, WA, to discuss the importance of exports and trade to U.S. jobs. The President announced that he has nominated Mary Barzee Flores to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The President announced that he has nominated Julien X. Neals to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. February 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President had lunch with participants in the "My Brother's Keeper" initiative's mentorship program.  In the evening, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson and Shaun L.S. Donovan, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and other senior advisers to discuss the impending deadline for funding the Department of Homeland Security. Then, he had separate telephone conversations with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid to receive an update on efforts to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security does not shut down due to a lapse in funding. The White House announced that the President will welcome European Council President Donald Tusk on March 9. The White announced that the President will welcome President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai of Afghanistan on March 24. February 28 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Tabaré Vázquez as President of Uruguay in Montevideo, Uruguay, on March 1: Krysta Harden (head of delegation); Bradley Freden; and Michele J. Sison. March 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Technology CEO Council members Ursula M. Burns, Michael S. Dell, D. Mark Durcan, Steven M. Mollenkopf, Virginia M. Rometty, and Joseph M. Tucci. March 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he participated in a video conference with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, and European Council President Donald F. Tusk to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, Russia's support for the separatists, the need for greater cooperation with the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and for strengthening its monitoring role, implementation and enforcement of the Minsk agreement, recent political reforms passed by Ukraine's Parliament, and the international commitment to financially assisting Ukraine. They also discussed the ongoing violence in Libya and how to counter ISIL's involvement and promote a political resolution to the conflict. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with his senior advisers. The White House announced that the President will travel to Selma, AL, on March 7. The President announced his intention to nominate John Conger to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller). The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory T. Delawie to be Ambassador to the Republic of Kosovo. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter Levine to be Deputy Chief Management Officer at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Vanessa Allen Sutherland to be Chairperson and member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Robert  Teranishi as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences. March 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with White House Counsel W. Neil Eggleston to receive an update on the U.S. Supreme Court case Black v. Burwell. In the afternoon, the President signed H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Mark W. Lippert. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland on March 17. March 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he taped separate interviews with Thomas Joyner and Sybil Wilkes of the "Tom Joyner Morning Show" and with Joseph E. Madison of the "Madison Show" for later broadcast. March 6 In the morning, the President traveled to Columbia, SC, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, upon arrival, the President traveled to West Columbia, SC, where, at the Brookland Banquet and Conference Center, he greeted patrons. Then, he traveled to Columbia, SC. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Atlanta, GA, on March 10. March 7 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson traveled to Selma, AL. While en route aboard Air Force One, he signed legislation to award a Congressional Gold Medal to participants in "Bloody Sunday," "Turnaround Tuesday," or the final Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights March in March of 1965. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and former President George W. Bush and First Lady  Laura Bush participated in a walk across the Edmund Pettus Bridge to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the "Bloody Sunday" civil rights march in Selma. Then, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia toured the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute. Later, also at the Voting Rights Museum, he taped an interview with Bill Plante of CBS News for later broadcast. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and his mother-in-law Marian Robinson returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. March 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. March 10 In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in the visitors' locker room of the McCamish Pavilion at the Georgia Institute of Technology, the President met with actor and comedian Tyler Perry. Then, also in the visitors' locker room, he met with Tara Lax, a special education teacher who had written him a letter about the rewards of working with children with special needs, and Georgia Tech student Tiffany Davis, who had written him a letter about her college loans. Later, he traveled to Manuel's Tavern, where he participated in a roundtable interview with high school and college students to discuss college affordability. Then, also at Manuel's Tavern, he participated in an interview with Shane Smith, cofounder of VICE News.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Hyatt Regency Atlanta hotel, where he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on March 12. The White House announced that the President will travel to Phoenix, AZ, on March 13. The President announced his intention to nominate Edward L. Ayers to be a member of the National Council of the Humanities. The President announced his intention to nominate David Hale to be Ambassador to Pakistan. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn Matthew to be Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Carol Fortine Ochoa to be Inspector General of the General Services Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric Satz to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to appoint Edward D. Dunson, Jr. as a member of the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Lisa Ling as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President announced his intention to appoint Jose Rodriguez as a member of the Board of Directors of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission and the North American Development Bank. The President announced his intention to appoint Eric D. Schwerin as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. The President announced his intention to appoint Delia Haak as U.S. Commissioner of the Arkansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Compact Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Joel West Williams as Alternate U.S. Commissioner of the Arkansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Compact Commission. March 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President joined a teleconference convened by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan with college newspaper editors to discuss the Student Aid Bill of Rights. Later, in the Grand Foyer, he met with 2015 Intel Science Talent Search student finalists. The White House announced that the President will host a student film festival to showcase student ideas on the theme, "The Impact of Giving Back," on March 20.  March 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Then, in the Situation Room, he had a video conference with President Ashraf Ahmadzai Ghani and Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah of Afghanistan to discuss the progress toward forming a national unity government, strengthening Afghan-U.S. relations, and improving security in Afghanistan. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. Upon arrival, he traveled to Hollywood, CA, where, at ABC Studios, he taped an interview with Jimmy Kimmel of ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live" program. In the evening, the President traveled to Santa Monica, CA, where, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he traveled to the InterContinental Los Angeles Century City hotel, where he remained overnight.  The President announced his intention to nominate Ian C. Kelly to be Ambassador to Republic of Georgia. The President announced his intention to nominate Patricia M. Loui-Schmicker to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The President announced his intention to appoint Brandon McBride as Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to appoint Loren Kieve and Princess Daazhraii Lucaj as members of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development. The President declared a major disaster in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, and flooding from January 26 through 28. March 13 In the morning, the President traveled to Phoenix, AZ, where at the Cart T. Hayden Veterans Administration Medical Center, he participated in a roundtable discussion with Veterans Administration employees, veteran advocates and patients, and Members of Congress on the issues facing the Department of Veterans Affairs.   In the afternoon, at the Phoenix Veterans Administration Health Care System, the President met with Carl and Marsha Mueller, parents, and Eric Mueller, brother, of U.S. aid worker Kayla J. Mueller, who was killed by members of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization on February 6 in Syria. Then, he traveled to Gilbert, AZ. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. March 14 In the evening, in the grand ballroom of the Renaissance Washington, DC Downtown Hotel, the President made remarks at the annual Gridiron Club dinner. March 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Sen. Orrin G. Hatch to discuss legislation granting the President trade promotion authority. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Boys and Girls Clubs of America President and Chief Executive Officer James L. Clark and organization members. The White House announced that the President will travel to Cleveland, OH, on March 18. March 17 In the afternoon, in the Rayburn Room at the U.S. Capitol, the President, Vice President Joe Biden, and Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland attended the annual Friends of Ireland St. Patrick's Day luncheon. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to the White House on April 17. The White House announced that the President will host the 2015 White House Science Fair on March 23. March 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in Ukraine and economic reforms in Greece. Then, he traveled to Cleveland, OH, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at Cleveland State University, the President toured a Manufacturing Advocacy and Growth Network (MAGNET) innovation center with Vice President for Client Services and Marketing Ethan Karp and met with officials and employees of participating companies. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will travel to Jamaica and Panama from April 8 through 11. The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas J. Kramer to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration. The President announced his intention to nominate David J. Shulkin to be Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate LaVerne Horton Council to be Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Juan M. Garcia III to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew J. Read to be a member of the Marine Mammal Commission, and upon appointment, to designate him as Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen P. Welby to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Commission on the Future of the Army: Larry R. Ellis; Kathleen H. Hicks; Thomas R. Lamont; and Jack C. Stultz. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations: Chad Dickerson; Gary Hirshberg; and Dennis D. Williams. March 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he signed an Executive order entitled "Planning for Federal Sustainability in the Next Decade." Later, at the Department of Energy, he toured a rooftop solar panel installation with Deputy Secretary of Energy Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Federal Environmental Executive Kate E. Brandt, and Energy Department Energy Manager Eric R. Haukdal. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Charles, Prince of Wales, and his wife Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, of the United Kingdom. Vice President Biden also attended. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to congratulate him on his party's success in the recent parliamentary election and to discuss Israel-U.S. relations, the Arab-Israeli peace process, and ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia to offer his condolences for the deaths and injuries caused by the March 18 terrorist attack at the National Bardo Museum in Tunis and to discuss Tunisia-U.S. counterterrorism and security cooperation. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to Namibia to attend the Inauguration of Hage Geingob as President and the commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Namibia's independence on March 21: Heather A. Higginbottom (head of delegation); Thomas F. Daughton; Karen R. Bass; Linda Thomas-Greenfield; and Deborah L. Birx. March 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss ongoing diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons and the situation in Ukraine. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President participated in an interview with Sam Stein of the Huffington Post. Later, he attended a farewell party for White House Communications Director Jennifer M. Palmieri in her office. March 21 In the morning, the President traveled to College Park, MD, where at the XFINITY Center, they attended a women's basketball game between Princeton University and University of Wisconsin—Green Bay with his brother-in-law Craig M. Robinson and other members of the Robinson family. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. March 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, on the State Floor, he viewed projects on exhibit for the White House Science Fair and visited with student participants. In the afternoon, the President met with former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore to express his condolences on the death of founding Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew and discuss Singapore-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will travel to Birmingham, AL, on March 26. The White House announced that the annual White House Easter Egg Roll will take place on April 6. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq on April 14. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on April 28. March 24 In the morning, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an expanded bilateral meeting with President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai of Afghanistan. Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah and Minister of Foreign Affairs Salahuddin Rabbani of Afghanistan and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice also attended. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden had a restricted bilateral meeting with President Ghani. In the afternoon, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with President Ghani. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy Brey of Spain to extend his condolences for the loss of life in the crash of Germanwings Flight 4U9525 in the French Alps and offer U.S. assistance in the crash investigation. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen A. Doherty to be Ambassador to Cyprus. The President announced his intention to nominate Hans G. Klemm to be Ambassador to Romania. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey Prieto to be General Counsel at the Department of Agriculture. The President announced his intention to nominate Lucy Tamlyn to be Ambassador to Benin. The President announced his intention to appoint Wanda M. Austin as a member of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas O. Melius as a Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. March 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with members of the Boy Scouts of America. The White House announced that the President will travel to Palm City, FL, on March 28. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will welcome His Holiness Pope Francis on September 23. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the state funeral service of former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore in Singapore on March 29: William J. Clinton (head of delegation); Kirk W.B. Wagar; Henry A. Kissinger; Steven Green; and Thomas E. Donilon. The President declared a major disaster in New Hampshire and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 26 through 28. March 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Birmingham, AL. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss ongoing cooperation in combating the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization, common efforts to bring security and stability to Iraq and Syria, Turkey's humanitarian support of nearly 2 million refugees from Iraq and Syria, the situations in Yemen and Ukraine, and international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of a nuclear weapon. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the ongoing international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of a nuclear weapon. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Joe Biden will travel to Boston, MA, on March 30. The President announced his intention to nominate Franklin R. Parker to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. The President announced his intention to nominate Atul Keshap to be Ambassador to Sri Lanka and Maldives. The President announced his intention to nominate Julieta Valls Noyes to be Ambassador to Croatia. The President announced his intention to nominate Alaina B. Teplitz to be Ambassador to Nepal. The President announced that he has nominated John M. Vazquez to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The President announced that he has nominated Paula Xinis to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. March 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the situation in Yemen and Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. March 28 In the morning, the President traveled to the Floridian National Golf Club in Palm City, FL, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, at the Floridian National Golf Club, the President remained overnight in a guest cottage. March 29 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. March 30 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Boston, MA, where, in rotating exhibit room 126 at the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate, they and Vice President Joe Biden met with members of the Kennedy family. The President and Mrs. Obama also viewed a replica of the former Senator's office with his widow Victoria Reggie Kennedy. The President also greeted students in a replica of the Senate Chamber. Also in the morning, the President was briefed on the shooting at the National Security Agency in Fort Meade, MD. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cambridge, MA, where, at the Area Four restaurant in Kendall Square, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Then, he and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Louisville, KY, on April 2. The White House announced that the President will travel to Kenya in July. March 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. He also received an update on the U.S. negotiating team's progress in Lausanne, Switzerland, as part of an international diplomatic effort to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Late in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Joseph Kabila to discuss democratic elections in 2016, continued efforts to defeat the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda insurgent group, and pending adoptions by U.S. families. He also had a telephone conversation with President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi of Egypt to discuss U.S. military assistance, the situations in Libya and Yemen, and U.S. support for human rights in Egypt. In the evening, the Situation Room, the President, Vice President Biden, and members of the President's national security team participated in a video conference with Secretary of State John F. Kerry, Secretary of Energy Ernest J. Moniz, and the U.S. negotiating team in Lausanne, Switzerland, to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from March 3 through 6. April 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, they met with senior advisers to discuss college affordability. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. During the day, the President signed H.R. 1527, the Slain Officer Family Support Act of 2015. He also met with White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough and Director of Communications Jennifer R. Psaki. Also during the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President Goodluck Jonathan and President-elect Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria to commend them for their leadership during the recent Presidential election and pledge continued U.S. support for efforts to defeat the Boko Haram terrorist organization. The White House announced that the President will travel to Hill Air Force Base, UT, on April 2. April 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Louisville, KY. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to reaffirm U.S. commitment to Israel's security and discuss diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. Upon arrival in Louisville, he traveled to the Indatus ICIM Corporation, where he toured the facilities with President Philip Hawkins and greeted employees.  Also in the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes to prepare for his remarks on international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and reaffirm U.S. commitment to the security of its allies in the Persian Gulf region. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to thank them for their cooperation and support of the diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran's development of nuclear weapons. In the evening, the President traveled to Salt Lake City, UT. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Sheraton Salt Lake City Hotel, where he remained overnight. While en route in the Presidential limousine, he and Gov. Gary R. Herbert of Utah discussed extending State control over of federally managed public lands and other topics. Later, at the Sheraton Salt Lake City Hotel, in Room Wildcat, he met with Dieter F. Uchtdorf and Henry B. Eyring, presidents of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, and other church representatives to discuss immigration reform and the church's longstanding commitment to public service and relief work. The President declared a major disaster in Tennessee and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and flooding from February 15 through 22. April 3 In the morning, the President traveled to Hill Air Force Base, UT, where he participated in a roundtable discussion on clean energy and toured an array of solar panels with Ronald E. Jolly, Sr., deputy commander of maintenance, Ogden Air Logistics Complex. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving late in the afternoon. In the afternoon, while en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya to offer his and Mrs. Obama's condolences for the loss of life caused by the April 2 terrorist attack at Garissa University College in Garissa, Kenya. Also aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain, Amir Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah of Kuwait, Amir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani of Qatar, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons and reaffirm U.S. commitment to the security of its allies in the Persian Gulf region. In the evening, in the Old Family Dining Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Seder to mark the beginning of Passover. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima of the Netherlands on June 1. The President declared a major disaster in Rhode Island and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm and snowstorm from January 26 through 28. April 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, President Obama participated in an interview with Thomas L. Friedman of the New York Times for later broadcast online. April 5 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia attended an Easter Sunday service at the Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria, VA.  In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters, Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC.  April 6 In the morning, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. Later, also on the South Lawn, he read "Where the Wild Things Are" to children participating in the Easter Egg Roll. Then, on the White House basketball and tennis courts, he played basketball with youth and players from the National Basketball League's Washington Wizards basketball team.  In the afternoon, the President taped an interview with Steve Inskeep of National Public Radio's "Morning Edition" program for later broadcast. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said of Oman to discuss the parameters for a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) regarding Iran's nuclear program and reaffirm U.S. support for regional and international efforts to prevent Iran's development of a nuclear weapon.  April 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, at the Howard University College of Medicine, he taped an interview with Chief Medical Correspondent Sanjay Gupta for CNN's "New Day" program for later broadcast.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with  Head Coach Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University men's basketball team to congratulate him on  his team's victory in the NCAA basketball championship. The President announced his intention to nominate Gabriel Camarillo to be Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Joyce Connery to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, and upon appointment, to designate her as Chair. The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce Hamilton to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.  The President announced his intention to nominate William A. Heidt to be Ambassador to Cambodia. The President announced his intention to nominate David M. Robinson to be Assistant Secretary for Conflict and Stabilization Operations and Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to appoint Kevin Griffis as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Smart Cities-Smart Growth Business Development Presidential Trade Mission in Beijing, China: Ernest J. Moniz (head of delegation); Penny S. Pritzker (head of delegation); and Max S. Baucus. April 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President received an update from his international health and national security teams on efforts to contain theEbola epidemic in West Africa and progress toward the goal of eliminating new Ebola cases in Sierra Leone and Guinea. He also had a telephone conversation with President Raúl Castro Ruz of Cuba to discuss Cuba-U.S relations. Later, he traveled to Kingston, Jamaica. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Jamaica Pegasus hotel. In the evening, at the Jamaica Pegasus hotel, the President visited with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Later, he traveled to the Bob Marley Museum, where he toured the house and museum exhibits with guide Natasha Clarke. Then, he returned to the Jamaica Pegasus hotel, where he remained overnight. The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storm and snowstorms from January 26 through 28.  April 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Jamaica House, the official residence of the Prime Minister of Jamaica, where , in the lobby, he signed the guest book. .  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Mona, Jamaica, where at the Regional Headquarters Building of the University of the West Indies, Mona—Western Jamaica Campus. Later, in the lobby of the Headquarters' building, he participated in a group photo with leaders of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM). Then, he returned to Kingston, where, at the National Heroes' Park War Memorial, he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony.  Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to Panama City, Panama, arriving in the evening.  In the evening, upon arrival in Panama City, the President traveled to the Westin Playa Bonita Panama hotel, where he visited with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Later, he traveled to a private residence, where he remained overnight. April 10 In the morning, the President traveled to the Hotel Riu Plaza Panama. While en route, he stopped at the Miraflores Locks of the Panama Canal, where he toured the canal. Later, at the Hotel Riu Plaza Panama, he participated in a signing ceremony between the Boeing Company and Copa Airlines. In the evening, the President traveled to the ATLAPA Convention Center, where he participated in arrival and inaugural ceremonies for the Summit of the Americas. Then, he traveled to Panamá Viejo, Panama City's historic district where he participated in an official photograph for Summit of the Americas leaders. Then, he attended a dinner and a cultural performance with Summit of the Americas leaders. Later, he returned to a private residence where he remained overnight. April 11 In the morning, the President traveled to the the ATLAPA Convention Center where he  participated in a Summit of the Americas leaders' retreat. Then, he met with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada. In the afternoon, at the ATLAPA Convention Center, the President participated a family photograph with Summit of the Americas leaders. Later, he participated in the second plenary session of the Summit of the Americas. Then, on the margins of the plenary session, he met with President Nicolas Maduro Moros of Venezuela. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. April 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with 4–H Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) students during their visit to the White House with Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice met with leaders of Jewish organizations to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from a developing nuclear weapon. Then, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President participated in separate "Live From the White House" television interviews with Jerry Revish of WBNS in Columbus, OH, Ron Martin of WGAL in Harrisburg, PA, John Stofflet of WMTV in Madison, WI, Cindy Williams of WCSH in Portland, ME, and Nancy Naeve of KSFY in Sioux Falls, SD, to discuss efforts to strengthen the national economy. Later in the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President met with Jewish community leaders to discuss international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. The White House announced that the President will travel to Charlotte, NC, on April 15. The President announced his intention to nominate Glyn Townsend Davies to be Ambassador to Thailand. The President announced his intention to nominate Carol Waller Pope to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, and upon appointment, to designate her as Chairman. The President announced his intention to appoint Amanda Hesser as a member of the President’s Commission on White House Fellowships. The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, and flooding from January 26 through 28. April 14 The White House announced that the President will welcome Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to the White House on April 20. April 15 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Charlotte, NC. Later, he was briefed on the landing of a gyrocopter on the West Front Lawn of the U.S. Capitol by Tampa, FL, resident Douglas M. Hughes.  Later, the President returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome the College Football Playoff National Champion Ohio State University football team to the White House on April 20. The President announced that he has nominated Wilhelmina Marie Wright to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. April 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had lunch with Satya Nadella, chief executive officer, Microsoft Corporation. Later, in the East Room, he hosted a Greek Independence Day reception. Vice President Biden also attended. The White House announced that the President will welcome 2014 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series Champion Kevin Harvick and his Stewart-Haas Racing team members to the White House on April 21. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2015 Super Bowl Champion New England Patriots to the White House on April 23. The President announced his intention to nominate Adam J. Szubin to be Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Crimes at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey J. Hawkins, Jr., to be Ambassador to the Central African Republic. The President announced his intention to appoint Victoria Esser as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of the Treasury. April 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President had a working lunch with Prime Minister Renzi. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the situation in Yemen and Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. The White House announced that the President will welcome leaders of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf to the White House on May 13 and to Camp David on May 14. April 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Later in the morning, the President met with Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates. Secretary of State John F. Kerry and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and Minister of Foreign Affairs Abdallah bin Zayid Al Nuhayyan, Deputy National Security Adviser Tahnoun Bin Zayed, and Ambassador to the U.S. Yusif bin Mani bin Said al-Utayba of the United Arab Emirates also attended. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with Crown Prince Mohammed. Later, in the Oval office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The White House announced that the President with travel to Everglades National Park in Homestead, FL, to commemorate Earth Day on April 22. The White House announced that President will welcome President Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia on May 21. The President declared a major disaster in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm from February 15 through 17. April 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to Tyson's Corner, VA, where at the Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce, he taped a roundtable interview with Chris Matthews for MSNBC's "Hardball With Chris Matthews" program for later broadcast. Rep. Gerald E. Connolly, Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Corcoran, Zansors, LLC, Chief Data Science Officer and Cofounder Abhijit Dasgupta, and Team Askin Technologies, Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer Debbie Askin also participated. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Centennial Commemoration of the Events of 1915 in Armenia on April 24: Jacob J. Lew (head of delegation); Richard M. Mills, Jr.; Jackie "Kanchelian" Speier; Frank Pallone, Jr.; Anna G. Eshoo; and Dave Trott. April 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Miami, FL, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Homestead, FL, where at Everglades National Park, he toured park grounds with South Florida Natural Resources Center Director Robert Johnson, Everglades Restoration Initiatives Director Shannon A. Estenoz, and park ranger Alan Scott. Then, on the Visitors Center Gazebo , he taped an interview for a White House Earth Day video series with William S. Nye, television personality and executive director of the Planetary Society, for later online broadcast. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Elaine Weinstein, wife of U.S. aid worker Warren Weinstein, a hostage who was killed during a U.S. counterterrorism operation against an Al Qaida compound in Pakistan on January 15, to offer his condolences for the death of her husband. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the death of Italian aid worker Giovanni Lo Porto, a hostage who was also killed during the January 15 operation, to offer his condolences for the death of Mr. Lo Porto.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on April 28. April 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  The President announced his intention to appoint Mauro Morales as Staff Director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. The President announced his intention to appoint Daniel Weiss as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. April 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to McLean, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President joined a conference call with Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez and journalists to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations and trade promotion authority legislation. The White House announced the President will host a White House Tribal Youth Gathering on July 9. April 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he participated in an interview with Gerald F. Seib. In the afternoon, on the National Mall, the President and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan visited the Lincoln Memorial. Then, he returned to the White House. Later, in the Oval Office, he had a meeting with Attorney General, Loretta E. Lynch, to welcome her to his team. During the meeting, he received an update from Attorney General Lynch, on the ongoing situation in Baltimore, MD.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Mayor Stephanie C. Rawlings-Blake of Baltimore, MD, to discuss the situation in Baltimore.  In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Lawrence J. Hogan, Jr., of Maryland, to discuss the situation in Baltimore. The White House announced that the President will honor the 2015 National and State Teachers of the Year on April 29. April 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. In the afternoon, the President taped in a telephone interview with radio host Steve Harvey of "The Steve Harvey Morning Show" for a later broadcast. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted Prime Minister Abe and his wife Akie Abe for a state dinner and reception. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photographic opportunity with the Prime Minister and Mrs. Abe. Later, in the State Dining Room, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a entertainment for Prime Minister Abe and Mrs. Abe.  The President announced his intention to nominate Peter V. Neffenger to be Assistant Secretary of the Transportation Security Administration at the Department of Homeland Security. The President declared a disaster under the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, as amended, due to Typhoon Maysak during the period of March 29 through April 1. April 29 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Sushil Koirala of Nepal to express his condolences for the loss of life in the April 25 earthquake in Nepal, discuss ongoing disaster response and recovery efforts, and pledge U.S. assistance. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and the 2015 National Teacher of the Year, Shanna Peeples, walked to nearby Teaism restaurant, where he purchased lunch and tea. Then, on their way back to the White House, he stopped outside the White House to talk to a group of young schoolchildren who were visiting. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he had lunch with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi.  Later in the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President signed the 2015 Economic Report of the President. Then, he traveled to Bethesda, MD, where, at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he visited with wounded U.S. servicemembers and their families. Later he returned to Washington, DC. April 30 In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President met with members of the New Democrat Coalition. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on May 4. The President announced his intention to nominate Gayle E. Smith to be Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.   The President announced that he has nominated Julie Helene Becker to be a judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe winter storms, snowstorms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from February 15 through 22.  May 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a video teleconference with mayors of Cities United to discuss  the White House "My Brother's Keeper" initiative and the President's Task Force on 21st-Century Policing. The President announced his intention to appoint W. James McNerney, Jr., and Ann Marie Wilkins as General Trustees on the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint Russell F. Smith III as a U.S. Commissioner to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas. The President announced his intention to appoint Guy "Bud" Tribble as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The President announced his intention to nominate Elizabeth Ann Copeland to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from April 2 through 17.  May 2 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. May 3 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where he played a round of golf. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President was briefed on the shootings at the Curtis Culwell Center in Garland, TX. May 4 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. In the afternoon, at the Ed Sullivan Theater in New York City, the President taped an interview with David Letterman of CBS's "Late Show With David Letterman" for later broadcast. In the evening, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. May 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with President Masoud Barzani of the Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq to discuss ongoing efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization and reaffirm U.S. support for the Iraqi Kurdistan region and commitment to a united, federal, and democratic Iraq. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. Later, he met with members of the Esperanza Azteca Youth Orchestra of Los Angeles, CA, and Puebla, Mexico, prior to their performance at the White House Cinco de Mayo celebration. The White House announced that the President will travel to Portland, OR, on May 7. The White House announced that the President will travel to Watertown, SD, on May 8. May 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he made separate telephone calls to Stephanie Tarr of Coon Rapids, MN, Dawn Miller of Tucson, AZ, and Patricia Church of Ormond Beach, FL, who had written letters to the President, to wish them a happy Mother's Day. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen DeSalvo to be Assistant Secretary for Health at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Jennifer Zimdahl Galt to be Ambassador to Mongolia. The President announced his intention to nominate David R. Gilmour to be Ambassador to Togo. The President announced his intention to nominate James D. Melville, Jr., to be Ambassador to Estonia. The President announced his intention to nominate Peter F. Mulrean to be Ambassador to Haiti. The President announced his intention to nominate Edwin R. Nolan, Jr., to be Ambassador to Suriname. May 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he met with White House Fellows. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Portland, OR. May 8 In the morning, the President traveled to Beaverton, OR, where, in the Jerry Rice Lobby at Nike World Headquarters, he taped an interview with Matt Bai of Yahoo News for later online broadcast. Later, he traveled to Watertown, SD, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, while en route to Watertown aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to congratulate him on his election victory and discuss United Kingdom-U.S. relations. In the evening, on the tarmac of Watertown Regional Airport, the President met with 11-year-old Rebecca Kelley of Vermillion, SD, who had written a letter to the President asking him to visit South Dakota, and members of her family. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Ann Calvaresi Barr to be Inspector General of the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Julius Lloyd Horwich to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Congressional Affairs at the Department of Education. The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory G. Nadeau to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth H. Blackburn as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President announced his intention to appoint Xavier de Souza Briggs as a member of the Community Development Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders: Jacob J. Fitisemanu, Jr.; Sanjita Pradhan; and Paul Y. Watanabe. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities: Peter V. Berns; James T. Brett; Kenneth Capone; Zachary W. Holler; Deborah M. Spitalnik; and Elizabeth Weintraub. May 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz al-Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the King's regret at not being able to travel to Camp David to attend the Gulf Cooperation Council meetings and the attendance of Crown Prince Muhammad bin Nayif bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud and Deputy Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud in his place, the importance of reaching a comprehensive agreement between the P–5-plus-1 and Iran to ensure the peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear program, the situation in Yemen, and Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. May 12 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. Also, he met with a group of Senate Democrats to discuss trade promotion authority legislation and Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe winter storm, snowstorm, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from March 3 through 9. May 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, on the South Lawn, he greeted leaders and delegations from the Gulf Cooperation Council. In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President hosted a working dinner for leaders and delegations from the Gulf Cooperation Council. Vice President Biden also attended. The President announced his intention to nominate Karl Brooks to be Assistant Administrator for Administration and Resources Management at the Environmental Protection Agency. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura Farnsworth Dogu to be Ambassador to Nicaragua. The President announced his intention to nominate Samuel D. Heins to be Ambassador to Norway. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas O. Melia to be Assistant Administrator for Europe and Eurasia at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Fran Ulmer as Chairperson of the Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint James J. Zogby as a member of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom May 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Camp David, MD, where in the conference room of the Laurel Cabin he greeted leaders and delegations from the Gulf Cooperation Council. Then, also in the Laurel Cabin, he participated in a working session. In the afternoon, in the Laurel Cabin, the Presidented hosted a lunch for Gulf Cooperation Council leaders and delegations. Later, also in the Laurel Cabin, he participated in a working session with Gulf Cooperation Council leaders and delegations. Later in the afternoon, the President participated in separate photographic opportunities with leaders and delegations from the Gulf Cooperation Council, followed by a group photograph. Then, he made remarks to members of the news media. Later, in the Laurel Cabin, he participated in a working session. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will present the Medal of Honor posthumously to Sgt. William Shemin, USA, and Private Henry Johnson, USA, for conspicuous gallantry during World War I. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from April 3 through 5. May 15 In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President taped an interview with Nadiya Bilbassy-Charters of the Al-Arabiya News Channel for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President will travel to Camden, NJ, on May 18. May 17 The White House announced that the President will travel to New London, CT, on May 20.  May 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors. Also in the morning, in the Oval Office, he sent out his first tweet under the handle @POTUS, the official Twitter account of the President of the United States. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camden, NJ, where at  the Camden County Police Department headquarters, he toured the department's Real-Time Tactical Operations and Information Center and met with local law enforcement officers and youth. Later, at The Salvation Army Ray and Joan Kroc Corps Community Center, he met with local youth and law enforcement officials. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Stamford, CT, on May 20. The President announced the designation of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Muhammadu Buhari as President of Nigeria in Abuja, Nigeria, on May 29: John F. Kerry (head of delegation). The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from April 8 through 11. May 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he met with the National Security Council to discuss the situation in Iraq and the U.S. strategy to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) organization in Iraq and Syria. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, he participated in an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg of the the Atlantic magazine. Then, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The White House announced that the President will make remarks at the Adas Israel Congregation on May 22. May 20 In the morning, the President traveled to New London, CT. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Stamford, CT, where, at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen C. Hedger to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate W. Thomas Reeder, Jr., to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jessica Rosenworcel to be a Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Luis A. Viada to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Akhil R.Amar and Robert P. Zimmerman to be members of the National Council on the Humanities.  The President announced his intention to appoint Ronald A. Klain as a member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S. The President announced his intention to appoint Gerald S. McGowan as a member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. May 21 The President announced his intention to nominate Denise Turner Roth to be Administrator of the General Services Administration. The President announced that he has nominated Edward L. Stanton III to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. The President announced that he has nominated Eric S. Miller to be U.S. attorney for the District of Vermont. The President announced that he has nominated Michael McGowan to be U.S. marshal for the District of Delaware. The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by the severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from April 13 through 15. May 22 In the morning, at the Adas Israel Congregation, the President visited a preschool classroom and greeted students and teachers.  In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for the foreign diplomatic corps. May 25 In the morning, in the State Dining Room, the President hosted a Memorial Day breakfast. Then, he traveled to Arlington, VA, where, at Arlington National Cemetery, he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. The White House announced that the President will travel to Miami, FL, on May 27 and 28. May 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. Gregory W. Abbott of Texas to discuss the floods affecting Texas, express his condolences for the loss of life, and offer Federal assistance in the rescue and recovery efforts. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden greeted 97-year-old Vivian Bailey of Columbia, MD, and her guests, Principal Troy Todd and teacher Melissa Peyton of Running Brook Elementary School in Columbia. Ms. Bailey raises money for students at the school to take field trips. Then, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor posthumously to Sgt. William Shemin, USA, and Pvt. Henry Johnson, USA, on June 2. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Park Geun-hye of South Korea to the White House on June 16. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from May 5 through 10. May 27 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, the President traveled to Miami, FL, where, at a private residence , he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. In the evening, the President traveled to the Hilton Miami Downtown hotel, where he remained overnight. May 28 In the morning, at the Hilton Miami Downtown hotel in Miami, FL, the President met with Arthur and Shirley Sotloff, parents, and Lauren Sotloff, sister, of Steven J. Sotloff, a freelance journalist who was killed by members of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization in Syria on September 2, 2014. Later, he traveled to the National Hurricane Center, where he toured the facilities with Director Richard Knabb and met with staff members. In the afternoon, at the National Hurricane Center, the President participated in a Twitter question-and-answer session on climate change. Then, he visited the Shrine of Our Lady of Charity in Miami, where he met with Rector Juan Rumin Dominguez, paid respects to the Cuban American community, and honored their contributions to the U.S. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. May 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President participated in a television interview with Ilana Dayan of Israel's Channel 2. The President announced his intention to nominate Marie Therese Dominguez to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Sarah Feinberg to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to appoint Rebecca Richards-Kortum and Andrew J. Viterbi as members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning on May 4 and continuing. May 31 In the afternoon, at the U.S. Naval Observatory, the President and Mrs. Obama visited with Vice President Joe Biden, his wife Jill T. Biden, and their family to offer their condolences for the death Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III, son of Vice President Biden. The White House announced that the Ford's Theatre Reception had been canceled out of respect for the death of Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III. June 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President announced his intention to nominate Roberta S. Jacobson to be Ambassador to Mexico.  The President announced his intention to appoint Cary Fowler as a member of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Marvin E. Johnson and David E. Walker as members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel for the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding beginning on May 4 and continuing. June 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will welcome the World Series Champion San Francisco Giants on June 4. June 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he taped an interview with Kai Ryssdal of National Public Radio's "Marketplace" program for later broadcast. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in separate "Live From the White House" interviews with Karen Borta of KTVT in Dallas, TX, Estela Casas of KVIA in El Paso,TX, Dennis Bounds of KING in Seattle,WA, Edie Lambert of KCRA in Sacramento, CA, and Barbara-Lee Edwards of KFMB in San Diego, CA. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. June 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will travel to Wilmington, DE, on June 6. The President announced his intention to nominate Scott Allen to be the U.S. Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Kendall to be Inspector General at the Department of the Interior. The President announced his intention to appoint Jim M. Ash as a member of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Abba Cohen as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. June 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, the recent assault by Russian-separatist forces near Donetsk, the need for Russia to abide by the terms of the Minsk agreement, and the U.S. commitment to supporting a diplomatic resolution to the conflict.  The President declared a major disaster in Guam and ordered Federal aid to supplement Territory and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Typhoon Dolphin from May 13 through16. June 6 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, their daughters Sasha and Malia, and Mrs. Obama's mother Marian Robinson, traveled to Wilmington, DE. In the afternoon, they returned to Washington, DC. Later, he traveled to Munich, Germany, arriving the following morning.  June 7 In the morning, upon arrival at Munich Airport, the President signed a guest book and participated in an arrival ceremony. Then, he traveled to the Schloss Elmau resort in Elmau, Germany. Later, he traveled to Krün, Germany, where at the Krün City Hall, he was welcomed by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and signed the town guest book.  In the afternoon, the President toured the village with Chancellor Merkel and stopped for a pretzel and a beer with Chancellor Merkel and her husband Joachim Sauer. Then, he and Chancellor Merkel greeted local residents. Later, he returned to the Schloss Elmau resort in Elmau.  Later in the afternoon, in the Second Library of the Old Castle Building the President met with Chancellor Merkel. Then, in the entrance of the Old Castle Building, he participated in a welcoming ceremony for the Group of Seven (G–7) leaders with Chancellor Merkel and her husband Joachim Sauer. Later, in the Pavilion Room of the Retreat Building, he attended two G–7 working sessions on strengthening the world economy and trade. Later, he participated in a photographic opportunity with G–7 leaders. In the evening, in the Concert Hall of the Old Castle Building, the President attended a reception and cultural performance with G–7 leaders, their spouses, and other guests. Later, in the Private Dining Room of the Old Castle Building, he participated in a working dinner with G–7 leaders to discuss foreign and security policy. He remained overnight at the Schloss Elmau. June 8 In the morning, in the Pavilion Room of the Retreat Building, the President participated in a third working session with Group of Seven (G–7) leaders and outreach guests to discuss energy initiatives and climate change. Later, in the Wetterstein Room of the Old Castle Building, he met with President François Hollande of France. Then, in the Fidelio Room of the Old Castle Building, he attended a fourth working session with G–7 leaders and outreach guests.  In the afternoon, in the Inner Courtyard of the Schloss Elmau, the President participated in a photographic opportunity with G–7 leaders and outreach guests. Then, in the Fidelio Room of the Old Castle Building, he had a working lunch with G–7 leaders, outreach guests, and summit sherpas to discuss development issues. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn Patricia Alsup to be Ambassador to the Gambia. The President announced his intention to nominate Paul Wayne Jones to be Ambassador to Poland. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel H. Rubinstein to be Ambassador to Tunisia. The President announced that he has appointed Shannon Price Minter as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.  June 9 In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Office of Science and Technology Policy Director John P. Holdren and Sen. C. William Nelson and other alumni of the Columbia Space Shuttle missions to discuss developments in astronomy and space exploration. June 10 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. June 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Rose Garden, he taped an interview with Jerry Penacoli of Extra TV for later broadcast. In the afternoon, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic National Committee fundraiser. In the evening, at Nationals Park, the President stopped by the 2015 Congressional Baseball Game for charity. Also in  the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea to discuss the postponement of her planned June 6 visit to the U.S., express his condolences for the loss of lives due to the MERs outbreak, and offer any further U.S. assistance required. The President announced the designation of the individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Milan Expo 2015 in Milan, Italy, on June 17 and 18: Michelle Obama (head of delegation); John R. Phillips; Douglas T. Hickey; Risa J. Lavizzo-Mourey; Alonzo H. Mourning; Will Allen; Mario Batali; Carla Hall; and Nicolas Jammet. The President announced that he has nominated Brian R. Martinotti to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The President announced that he has nominated Robert F. Rossiter, Jr., to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska. June 12 In the morning, in the Cannon House Office Building, the President met with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Rep. James E. Clyburn to discuss the upcoming votes on trade promotion authority and trade adjustment assistance legislation. Then, in the Gabriel Zimmerman Meeting Room of the Capitol Visitor Center, he dropped in on a meeting of members of the House Democratic Caucus to discuss his trade agenda. In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President dropped by a video teleconference with Governors from six Western States to discuss ways to combat wildfires and drought. The President announced his intention to nominate John Morton to be Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The President announced his intention to appoint Nancy M. Schlichting as Chair of the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors. The President announced his intention to appoint David W. Gorman and Joyce M. Johnson as members of the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors. June 13 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a private party featuring a musical performance by Prince. June 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss trade promotion authority legislation. June 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The White House announced that the President will travel to the Los Angeles, CA, area on June 18. June 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Stephen D. Kerr of the National Basketball Association's Golden State Warriors to congratulate him on his team's victory in the 2015 NBA Finals. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with the recipients of the Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring. Then, he met separately with Democratic Members of the Senate and House of Representatives to thank them for their support of trade promotion authority and trade adjustment assistance legislation and reiterate his commitment to working with congressional leaders to pass the legislation. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Head Coach Joel Quenneville, Principal Owner and Chairman Rocky Wirtz, and team captain Jonathan Toews of the National Hockey League's Chicago Blackhawks to congratulate them on their team's victory in the 2015 Stanley Cup Championship. In the evening, the President was briefed on the shootings at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, SC. The White House announced that the President will travel to San Francisco, CA, on June 19. June 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Map Room, he recorded a video message for the White House Summit on Climate Change and Health on June 23. Later, he had separate telephone conversations with Rep. James E. Clyburn, Mayor Joseph P. Riley, Jr., of Charleston, SC, and Minority Leader J. Todd Rutherford of the South Carolina House of Representatives to discuss the June 17 shootings in Charleston and offer his condolences. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Nikki Randhawa Haley and Sens. Lindsey O. Graham and Timothy E. Scott of South Carolina to discuss the June 17 shootings in Charleston, SC, and offer his condolences. Upon arrival in Los Angeles, he traveled to a private residence, where he participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. The President announced his intention to nominate Julie Furuta-Toy to be Ambassador to Equatorial Guinea. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the National Cancer Advisory Board: Peter C. Adamson; Deborah Watkins Bruner; Yuan Chang; Timothy J. Ley; and Max S. Wicha. June 19 In the morning, the President traveled to the residence of comedian Marc Maron, where he recorded an interview for the "WTF With Marc Maron" podcast to be released on June 22. Later, he traveled to San Francisco, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Hilton San Francisco Union Square hotel, where he met with Gov. Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown, Jr., of California to discuss the Federal, State, and local response to the drought and wildfires affecting California and thank Gov. Brown for his leadership in international efforts to combat climate change. Later, at a private residence, he participated in a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will travel to Ethiopia in late July. The White House announced that the President will travel to Palm Springs, CA, on June 20 and 21. June 20 In the morning, the President traveled to Rancho Mirage, CA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to a private residence in Thunderbird Heights, where he remained overnight. June 21 In the morning, the President traveled to the Porcupine Creek Golf Course. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. June 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President and Vice President Joe Biden will travel to Charleston, SC, on June 26. June 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. June 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of to discuss U.S. electronic surveillance and intelligence-gathering programs and France-U.S. relations.  In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President met with Vice Premier Liu Yandong, Vice Premier Wang Yang, State Councilor Yang Jiechi, and other special representatives to the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue and Consultation on People-to-People Exchange. Later, in the Blue Room, he visited with Jim Obergefell, plantiff in the U.S. Supreme Court case Obergefell v. Hodges, who was attending the White House Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Pride Month Reception in the East Room. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Biden and his wife Jill T. Biden will travel to Charleston, SC, on June 26 June 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the briefing, also in the Oval Office, he was informed by Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, White House Counsel W. Neil Eggleston, and the Deputy Chief of Staff Kristie A. Canegallo of the Supreme Court's decision to uphold key provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Then, he had a telephone conversation with U.S. Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., to congratulate him on the Supreme Court's favorable rulings on the housing discrimination and Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act cases. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss efforts to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, ongoing international negotiations to prevent Iran from aquiring a nuclear weapon, and the situations in Ukraine and Syria.  In the evening, at the White House, the President met with Director of Speechwriting Cody S. Keenan to discuss the eulogy he would deliver at the funeral service for Pastor Clementa C. Pinckney of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, SC, on June 26. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria on July 20. The President declared a major disaster in Nebraska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from May 6 through June 17. June 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Jim Obergefell, plantiff in the U.S. Supreme Court case Obergefell v. Hodges, to congratulate him on the Court's ruling in favor of marriage equality for same-sex couples. Then, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Charleston, SC, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, following the funeral service at the TD Arena of the College of Charleston, the President, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Biden and his wife Jill T. Biden met with families of the victims of the June 17 shootings at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Cohen to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board and, upon appointment, to designate him Vice Chairman. The President announced his intention to nominate G. Kathleen Hill to be Ambassador to Malta. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust: Lynne Benioff; Paula Robinson Collins; Nicola Miner; and Janet Reilly. The President announced his intention to appoint Eric Ortner as a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. The President announced his intention to appoint Shervin Pishevar as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Steven Spinner as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The President declared a major disaster in Arkansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from May 7 through June 15. June 28 During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the fiscal situation in Greece and express his condolences for the deaths of the German citizens killed in a terrorist attack at a beach resort in Sousse, Tunisia, on June 26. June 29 Ii the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the economic situation in Greece and express his condolences for loss of life and injuries due to the terrorist attack at the Air Products gas factory in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier near Lyon, France, on June 26.In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia to offer his condolences for the loss of life resulting from the terrorist attack on a beach resort in Souse, Tunisia, on June 26 and reaffirm U.S. cooperation on counterterrorism efforts and broader security issues. Later, on the National Mall, he joined President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil on a visit to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial.  In the evening, in the Blue Room, the President had a working dinner with President Rousseff. Vice President Joe Biden also attended.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to express his condolences for the loss of life due in the June 26 terrorist attack on a beach resort in Sousse, Tunisia, , offer his support in confronting global terrorism, and discuss the need for structural economic reforms in Greece.  The White House announced that the President will travel to Nashville, TN, on July 1. The White House announced that the President will travel to La Crosse, WI, on July 2. June 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a teleconference call with elected officials and business and labor groups to discuss the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. July 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Nashville, TN, accompanied by Medina, OH, resident and health care reform advocate Natoma A. Canfield. En route to Taylor Stratton Elementary School in Nashville, TN, he stopped by the residence of Kelly Bryant, a Nashville resident who had written him a letter on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, to pick her up for the event, where she later introduced him. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss the economic situation in Greece and the need for structural reforms. Also during the day, the President participated in a Twitter question-and-answer session on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the U.S. National Day at Expo 2015 Milan in Milan, Italy, on July 4: Thomas J. Vilsack (head of delegation); John R. Phillips; Betty McCollum; Douglas T. Hickey; Eric Goldstein; Samuel Kass; Marianne Smith Edge; Angela Tagtow; and Susan Ungaro. July 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, the President traveled to La Crosse, WI. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the 2015 Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) Women's World Cup final game in Vancouver, Canada, on July 5: Jill Biden (head of delegation); Joseph R. Biden, Jr.; Bruce Heyman; Evan Ryan; Cobi Jones; and Mia Hamm. July 3 In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Columbia Country Club in Chevy Chase, MD. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will welcome Communist Party General Secretary Nguyen Phú Trong of Vietnam on July 7. July 4 The White House announced that the South Lawn Independence Day  barbecue for military servicemembers and their families had been canceled due to weather conditions. In the evening, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted a Independence Day celebration for White House staff, guests, and military servicemembers and their families. July 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the economic unrest in Greece and the need for reforms combined with growth and debt sustainability within the eurozone.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with the U.S. women's soccer team to congratulate them on winning the World Cup, applaud Coach Jill Ellis for her leadership, and commend Carli Lloyd's outstanding performance in the championship games.  July 7 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel to discuss economic unrest in Greece and the need for reforms combined with growth and debt sustainability within the eurozone. Later, in the Oval Office, he Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras of Greece to discuss the Prime Minister's ideas for a path forward between Greece and its creditors and the need for a mutually acceptable agreement. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President met with members of the Senate Democratic Caucus. The President announced his intention to nominate Brad R. Carson to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.  The President announced his intention to nominate Peter W. Bodde to be Ambassador to Libya. The President announced his intention to nominate Catherine Ebert-Gray to be Ambassador to Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu. The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis B. Hankins to be Ambassador to Guinea. The President announced his intention to nominate Elisabeth I. Millard to be Ambassador to Tajikistan. The President declared a major disaster in Wyoming and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from May 24 through June 6. July 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. Also in the afternoon, in the Situation Room, he and his national security team had a secure video conference with Secretary of State John F. Kerry, Secretary of Energy Ernest J. Moniz, and members of the U.S. negotiating team in Vienna to discuss the progress of international diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.  The White House announced that the President will host and deliver remarks at the White House Conference on Aging on July 13.  The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina on July 11: William J. Clinton (head of delegation); Maureen E. Cormack; Roger F. Wicker; C. Jeanne Shaheen; Eliot L. Engel; Peter T. King; Madeleine K. Albright; Rosemary A. DiCarlo; Victoria Nuland; and Stephen J. Rapp.  July 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. The President announced that he has nominated Darlene M. Soltys to be a judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.  The President announced his intention to nominate Mary K. Wakefield to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services.  The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony Coscia to be a Director on the AMTRAK Board of Directors. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew Rhett Jeppson to be Director of the Mint at the Department of the Treasury. The President announced his intention to nominate Andy Slavitt to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President Barack Obama announced his intention to nominate Derek Kan to be a Director on the AMTRAK Board of Directors. July 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to Philadelphia, PA, on July 14. July 11 In the morning, the President traveled to the Caves Valley Golf Club in Owings Mills, MD, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President signed 46 commutations of the prison sentences of nonviolent drug offenders and released a video of the signing to publicize efforts to reform the U.S. criminal justice system. Later, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch.  During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, Senior Director for Iran, Iraq, Syria, and the Gulf States Jeffrey Prescott, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser for Counterterrorism Avril D. Haines, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes to discuss the multilateral agreement reached in Vienna, Austria, to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Secretary of State John F. Kerry to thank him for his role in negotiating the agreement between the P–5-plus-1 and Iran to ensure the peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear program. Also during the day, the President dropped by a meeting between Vice President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk of Ukraine. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with various Members of Congress to discuss the Iran nuclear agreement reached in Vienna. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to discuss the international agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. The White House announced that the President will travel to Durant, OK, and Oklahoma City, OK, on July 15 and 16. The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding from May 18 through June 20. July 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA. En route to the Philadelphia Convention Center, he had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program, security assurances covered in discussions with Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) members at Camp David in May, and the situation in Yemen. Then, at the Convention Center, he met with formerly incarcerated individuals to discuss reintegration following their release and work they are doing to help other formerly incarcerated individuals and at-risk youth through community service, mentorship, and education. Also in the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President recorded an interview with Thomas L. Friedman of the New York Times for later broadcast online. Later in the afternoon, at the Rittenhouse hotel, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, and European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini to discuss the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) regarding Iran's nuclear program, thank the leaders for their important role in achieving the agreement, and reaffirm close coordination as the JCPOA is implemented. The President also welcomed the July 13 agreement between Greece and its creditors and urged a path toward growth and debt stability in Greece through continued economic reforms.  Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the multilateral agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon and underscore the strong U.S. commitment to Israel's security. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates, to discuss the JCPOA agreement regarding Iran's nuclear program, security assurances covered in discussions with Gulf Cooperation Council members, and the situation in Yemen.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 15 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Denison, TX. En route aboard Air Force One, the President had a telephone conversation with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program, thank President Putin for his important role in achieving the agreement, and review the situation in Syria. Upon arrival in Denison, TX, he traveled to Durant, OK, where at Durant High School, he met with youth from the Choctaw, Cherokee, Muscogee (Creek), and Chickasaw Nations. During the day, outside the West Wing, the President met with Vice President Joe Biden, Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser to the Vice President Colin Kahl, and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice.  In the evening, the President traveled to Denison, TX. Then, he traveled to Oklahoma City, OK, where at the Sheraton Oklahoma City Downtown Hotel, he remained overnight.  The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Coppedge to be Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking, with rank of Ambassador at Large, at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Jessie Roberson to be a Commissioner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Marc J. Sievers to be Ambassador to Oman.  The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth D. Ward for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth C. Wesman as Chair of Presidential Emergency Board No. 248. The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara Deinhardt and Ann Kenis as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 248. The President announced his intention to appoint Regina T. Jefferson as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. July 16 In the morning, the President traveled to El Reno, OK, where at the Federal Correctional Institution El Reno, he had a roundtable discussion with inmates and toured the prison facility's Cell Block B with Federal Bureau of Prisons Director Charles E. Samuels, Jr., and correctional officer Ronald Warlick. Then, also at the El Reno correctional facility, he recorded an interview with Shane Smith of VICE News for later broadcast.  Also in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with former President George H.W. Bush to wish him a speedy recovery after injuries resulting from a fall at his home in Kennebunkport, ME, and extend best wishes on behalf of himself and Mrs. Obama. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. During the day, the President was briefed by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey, Jr., Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, and members his national security team on the shootings at the U.S. military facilities in Chattanooga, TN. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on July 17 and 18. The President announced that he has nominated Mark A. Young to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, arriving in the evening. The President declared a major disaster exists in Colorado and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from May 4 through June 16. July 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with Minister of Foreign Affairs Adil al-Ahmad al-Jubayr of Saudi Arabia. In the afternoon, the President and his daughter Sasha traveled to New York City, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to a private residence, where he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later in the evening, the President and his daughter Sasha traveled to the Hilton Manhattan East hotel, where they remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will travel to Pittsburgh, PA, on July 21. The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on July 21. July 18 In the morning, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia visited Central Park, where, joined by the President's sister Maya Soetoro-Ng and her husband Konrad Ng, they took a short walk through the Park. In the afternoon, at the Richard Rodgers Theatre, the President, his daughters Sasha and Malia, and his sister Maya and brother-in-lawKonrad attended a performance of "Hamilton," a Broadway musical. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the East Room, he dropped by a meeting of the American Legion's Boys Nation, where he greeted delegates and staff members. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to express his appreciation for the role China played in the nuclear deal achieved among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran, and discuss China-U.S. relations ahead of President Xi's visit to the White House in September. The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn M. Dominguez to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The President declared a major disaster in Kansas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery effort in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds and flooding from May 4 through June 21. July 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City, where, at the Daily Show Studios, he recorded an interview with Jon Stewart of Comedy Central's "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart" for later broadcast. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. The President announced that he has nominated Leonard T. Strand to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Iowa. July 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Situation Room, he had a video teleconference with President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai and Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah of Afghanistan to commend them for the progress made on efforts to curb corruption and improve the economy and discuss ways to strengthen the Afghan national security forces and encourage regional counterterrorism cooperation. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss strengthening cooperation in the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization, review efforts to bring security and stability to the Middle East, and condemn the July 20 and July 22 terrorist attacks in Suruc and Ceylanpinar, Turkey. The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm on June 23. July 23 In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President recorded an interview with Jon Sopel of BBC News for later broadcast. In the evening, the President traveled to Ramstein Air Base, Germany, arriving the following morning. While en route aboard Air Force One, he was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser, Lisa O. Monaco on the shootings at the Grand Theatre 16 in Lafayette, Louisiana  The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Howorth to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The President announced his intention to nominate Harry K. Thomas, Jr. to be Ambassador to Zimbabwe. The President announced his intention to nominate Victoria Wassmer to be Under Secretary for Management and Performance Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to appoint Sandra E. Black as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. The President announced his intention to appoint Raymond Cook as Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The President announced his intention to appoint Brooke D. Anderson and Robert L. Stein as members of the President's Intelligence Advisory Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara K. Rimer as Chair and Owen N. Witte as a member of the President's Cancer Panel. July 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Nairobi, Kenya, arriving in the evening. Upon arrival, he traveled to the Villa Rosa Kempinski hotel, where he had dinner with his sister Auma Obama, grandmother Sarah Onyango Obama, and other Kenyan relatives. He remained overnight at the Villa Rosa Kempinski hotel. The President announced the designation the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the opening ceremony of the 2015 Special Olympics World Games in Los Angeles, CA, on July 25: Michelle Obama (head of delegation); Maxine Waters; Adam Schiff; Janice Hahn; and Alan Lowenthal. July 25 In the morning, at the United Nations Compound in Nairobi, Kenya, the President toured the Power Africa Innovation Fair with U.S. Agency for International Development Acting Administrator Alfonso E. Lenhardt and Power Africa Coordinator Andrew M. Herscowitz. During the tour, he met with fair participants Sam Goldman, cofounder and chief customer officer, d.light; Katherine Lucey, founder and chief executive officer, Solar Sister; June Muli, head of customer care, M-Kopa Solar; Michael Wanyonyi, founder and chief executive officer, Mibawa Suppliers Ltd.; Amos Nguru, chief executive officer, Afrisol Energy Ltd.; and Charles Ogingo, cofounder and chairman, Pfoofy Power and Light Ltd. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the U.S. Embassy, where he visited with Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he traveled to Memorial Park, where he met with survivors and family members of the victims of the 1998 Embassy bombing, signed the guest book, and participated in a wreath-laying ceremony honoring the victims. Later, at the State House, he participated in a welcoming ceremony with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya. Then, he traveled to the Villa Rosa Kempinski hotel. In the evening, the President traveled to the State House. Later, he returned to the Villa Rosa Kempinski hotel, where he remained overnight. July 26 In the morning, the President traveled to the Safaricom Indoor Arena in Nairobi, Kenya. In the afternoon, at the Safaricom Indoor Arena, the President met with Kenyan opposition leaders Raila Amolo Odinga, leader of the Orange Democratic Movement party; Sen. Moses Masika Wetangula, leader of the Forum for Restoration of Democracy–Kenya party; Kalonzo Musyoka, leader of the Wiper Democratic Movement–Kenya party; and Martha Karua, leader of the National Rainbow Coalition–Kenya party. Later, he traveled to Kenyatta University in Nairobi, where, at the Young African Leaders Initiative Regional Leadership Center, he participated in a live radio interview with Olive Burrows of Capital FM in Nairobi. Later, he traveled to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. In the evening, upon arrival in Addis Ababa, the President traveled to the U.S. Embassy, where he visited with Embassy personnel and their families. Then, he traveled to the Sheraton Addis hotel, where he remained overnight. July 27 In the morning, at the National Palace in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, the President participated in a welcoming ceremony with Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia. In the afternoon, at the National Palace, the President met with President Mulatu Teshome of Ethiopia. Later, he returned to the Sheraton Addis Hotel, where he met with Prime Minister Hailemariam, President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya, President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni of Uganda, Foreign Minister Ibrahim Ahmad 'Abd al-Aziz Ghandour of Sudan, and Chairperson Nkosazana Clarice Dlamini Zuma of the African Union Commission to discuss conflict resolution efforts in South Sudan, regional counterterrorism cooperation, and efforts to strengthen the Government of Somalia. In the evening, the President traveled to the National Palace, where he viewed the fossil skeleton of the early human ancestor known as Lucy with Zeresenay "Zeray" Alemseged, senior curator of anthropology at the California Academy of Sciences, and Yonas Desta Tsegaye, director general of the National Museum of Ethiopia. The Australopithecus fossil was discovered in Ethiopia in 1974 and is permanently housed at the National Museum. Later in the evening, the President returned to the Sheraton Addis Hotel. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia of Spain on September 15. July 28 In the morning, at the Sheraton Addis Hotel, the President met with Ethiopian civil society activists. In the afternoon, at African Union Headquarters in Addis Ababa, the President met with Chairperson Nkosazana Clarice Dlamini Zuma of the African Union Commission. Later, he traveled to Ramstein Air Force Base, Germany, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. July 29 In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President hosted a working reception for House Democrats to discuss his legislative priorities, including the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. During the day, in the Oval Office, the President met with Vice President Biden. The President declared a major disaster in Vermont and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm and flooding on June 9. July 30 In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. During the day, in the East Room, the President greeted American Legion's Girls Nation delegates and posed for a group photograph. In the evening, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a conference call with grassroots supporters to discuss the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert P. Jackson to be Ambassador to Ghana. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael H. Michaud to be Assistant Secretary for Veterans’ Employment and Training at the Department of Labor. The President announced his intention to nominate John E. Sparks to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric D. Eberhard to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation. The President announced that he has nominated Elizabeth J. Drake, Jennifer Choe Groves, and Gary S. Katzmann to be judges on the U.S. Court of International Trade. The President announced that he has nominated Susan Paradise Baxter, Robert J. Colville, and Marilyn J. Horan to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The President announced that he has nominated Inga S. Bernstein to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The President announced that he has nominated Gary R. Brown to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced that he has nominated Dax E. López to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia.  The President announced that he has nominated John M. Younge to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The President declared a major disaster in South Dakota and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 17 through 24. July 31 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. During the day, in the East Room, the President greeted recipients of the 2013 Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching and posed for a group photograph. The President declared a major disaster in Iowa and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from June 20 through 25. August 1 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Camp David, MD. August 2 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. August 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, in the Oval Office, he participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks at American University on August 5. August 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the State Dining Room and Red Room, he viewed projects on exhibit for the White House Demo Day. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he met with U.S. Jewish community leaders to discuss the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the 50th National Day celebration in Singapore on August 9: Ronald Kirk (head of delegation); and Kirk W.B. Wagar.  August 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President participated in a roundtable interview with foreign policy columnists to discuss the agreement among the P–5-plus-1, the European Union, and Iran on a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran's nuclear program. The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Buckius to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate T.F. Scott Darling III to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Etim to be Assistant Administrator for the Bureau for Africa at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Laura S.H. Holgate to be U.S. Representative to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, and U.S. Representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcel Lettre to be Under Secretary for Intelligence at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick J. Murphy to be Under Secretary of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Cherry A. Murray to be Director of the Office of Science at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert D. Reischauer to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Social Security trust funds. The President announced his intention to nominate Charles P. Blahous III to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Social Security trust funds. The President declared a major disaster in the Northern Mariana Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by Typhoon Soudelor from August 1 through 3. The declaration was announced by the Office of the Press Secretary on August 6. August 6 In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President recorded separate interviews with Fareed Zakaria of CNN's "Fareed Zakaria GPS" program and Jake Horowitz of Mic.com for later broadcast. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he recorded an interview with Steve Inskeep of NPR's "Morning Edition" program for later broadcast. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia will travel to Martha's Vineyard, MA, on August 7.  August 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Map Room, he recorded an interview with Thomas L. Friedman of the New York Times for later broadcast online. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughter Sasha traveled to Chilmark, MA, arriving in the evening. Upon arrival, they traveled to their vacation residence, where they remained overnight. The President declared a major disaster exists in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from May 15 through July 27. August 8 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA.  The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from July 10 through 14. The President declared a major disaster for the Oglala Sioux Tribe of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation and ordered Federal aid to supplement tribal recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and flooding from May 8 through 29. August 9 In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to West Tisbury, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. August 10 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA, arriving in the evening.  August 12 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, he returned to his vacation residence Chilmark, MA. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Edgartown, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with former President James E. Carter, Jr., to extend his and Mrs. Obama's best wishes following President Carter's recent announcement of his cancer diagnosis. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Park Geun-hye of South Korea on October 16. The President declared a major disaster in Kentucky and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, flooding, landslides, and mudslides from July 11 through 20. August 13 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA.  August 14 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA, arriving in the evening. August 15 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Edgartown, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. Then, he traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the afternoon, at the Farm Neck Golf Club, the President played a round of golf with former President William J. Clinton, former U.S. Trade Representative Ronald Kirk, and civil rights leader Vernon E. Jordan, Jr. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA, where, at the Farm Neck Golf Club, they attended a birthday party for Vernon E. Jordan, Jr. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. August 17 In the morning, the President traveled to Edgartown, MA. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark. August 18 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Edgartown, MA. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. August 19 In the afternoon, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Tisbury, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. During the evening, the President was briefed on the wildfires affecting Western States, including the deaths of three firefighters in Washington. August 20 In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Aquinnah, MA, where they spent time at the beach with U.S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline B. Kennedy and her family. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. The White House announced that the President will travel to Las Vegas, NV, on August 24. August 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark. Also in the evening, the President was briefed on the shooting aboard a train traveling from Amsterdam to Paris, France, in which suspected gunman Ayoub El Khazzani was subdued and restrained by several passengers, including two U.S. servicemembers. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2014 Women's National Basketball Association Champion Phoenix Mercury on August 26. The President declared an emergency in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the areas affected by wildfires beginning on August 13 and continuing. August 22 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia traveled to Tisbury, MA. In the afternoon, President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. Also in the afternoon, he had separate telephone conversations with A1C Spencer Stone, USAF, National Guard Spc. Aleksander Skarlatos, USA, and U.S. student Anthony Sadler to commend and congratulate them on their courageous actions aboard a Paris-bound train, which forestalled an attempted mass shooting on August 22, and wish Airman Stone a speedy recovery for injuries he sustained in restraining suspected gunman Ayoub El Khazzani. During the day, the President was briefed on the security situation on the Korean Peninsula. He also had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the August 22 attempted mass shooting on the Paris-bound high-speed train from Amsterdam, the brave actions of three U.S. citizens who helped to subdue the suspected gunman, and their joint commitment to combating terrorism. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to a private residence in Edgartown, MA. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. The White House announced that the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia will return to Washington, DC, on August 23. August 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Oak Bluffs, MA. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Chilmark, MA. Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. August 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he traveled to Las Vegas, NV. Then, he traveled to Henderson, NV, arriving in the evening. In the evening, the President traveled to the Westin Las Vegas Hotel, Casino, and Spa in Las Vegas, NV, where he remained overnight. The President made additional disaster assistance available to the Northern Mariana Islands by authorizing an increase in the level of Federal funding for the Commonwealth as a result of Typhoon Soudelor from August 1 through 3. August 25 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to commend the Prime Minister for his August 14 expression of remorse for the suffering caused by Japan during the World War II era, encourage further reconciliation efforts, and reaffirm key areas of Japan-U.S. cooperation.  The White House announced that the President will travel to New Orleans, LA, on August 27. August 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the situation in eastern Ukraine, international diplomatic efforts to reduce violence and tensions in Eastern Europe, the migration crisis in Europe, in particular the plight of Syrian refugees entering Europe. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he recorded separate "Live From the White House" television interviews with Carolyn Clifford of WXYZ in Detroit, MI, Sally-Ann Roberts of WWL in New Orleans, LA, Monica Malpass of WPVI in Philadelphia, PA, Steve Raible of KIRO in Seattle, WA, and Maureen Bunyan of WJLA in Washington, DC, for later broadcast. The President announced his intention to appoint Jay C. Shambaugh as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. The President announced his intention to appoint M. Tia Johnson as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security. The President announced his intention to appoint Doreen E. Brown and Aaron Payment as members of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education. The President announced his intention to appoint Joan McDonald as a member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council. The President announced his intention to appoint Lisa Funderburke Hoffman as a member of the National Museum and Library Services Board. The President announced his intention to appoint Carmen A. Corrales as a member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. August 27 In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, the President participated in a walking tour of the Tremé neighborhood with Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu of New Orleans and visited with local residents. Then, he traveled to Willie Mae's Scotch House restaurant, where he had lunch with Mayor Landrieu, Rep. Cedric L. Richmond, Cabinet Secretary Broderick D. Johnson, and Victor York-Carter, Garland Sipper, Caswick Naverro, and Denzel Shine, local youth and "My Brother's Keeper" initiative participants who have rebuilt their lives over the past 10 years since the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President will welcome King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia on September 4. August 28 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Oval Office, he participated in an interview with Jane Eisner, editor-in-chief of Forward.com. In the afternoon, at the Fiola restaurant, the President attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. The White House announced that the President will travel to Anchorage, AK, from August 31 through September 2. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Joachim Gauck of Germany on October 7. The President announced his intention to appoint James O'Brien as Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to appoint Charles "Chip" Lyons as U.S. Representative to the Executive Board of the U.N. Children's Fund (UNICEF). The President announced his intention to appoint Aaron Williams as U.S. Alternate Representative to the Executive Board of the U.N. Children's Fund (UNICEF). The President announced his intention to appoint Esther Brimmer and Michael Guest as members of the National Security Education Board. August 30 The White House announced that the President will travel to Dillingham and Kotzebue, AK, on September 2. August 31 In the morning, the President traveled to Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK, arriving in the afternoon. He was joined on the flight by Gov. William M. Walker of Alaska. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Kathleen Goforth, wife of Harris County Deputy Sheriff Darren Goforth, who was killed at a gas station in Cypress, TX, on August 28, to offer condolences on behalf of Mrs. Obama and the Nation and restate his commitment to honoring the bravery and service of law enforcement personnel. In the afternoon, upon arrival in Anchorage, AK, the President traveled to Hotel Captain Cook. Later, he traveled to the Dena'ina Civic and Convention Center. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled to the Hotel Captain Cook. In the evening, the President traveled to the private residence of Alice Rogoff, publisher of the Alaska Dispatch News, where he had dinner. Later, he returned to the Hotel Captain Cook, where he remained overnight.  September 1 In the morning, while en route to Seward, AK, , the President stopped at Snow City Cafe in Anchorage, where he ordered breakfast and greeted patrons. In the afternoon, upon arrival in Seward, the President hiked to Outlook Point at Exit Glacier in Kenai Fjords National Park. Later, he continued hiking in the park while recording an interview with Bear Grylls of NBCs "Running Wild With Bear Grylls" program for later broadcast. In the afternoon, at the Sweet Darlings shop in Seward, the President purchased gelato for himself and the pool of travel reporters accompanying him. Later, he traveled to Seward Harbor, where he embarked on boat tour of the Kenai Fjords National Park and Resurrection Bay with Laura Sturtz, National Park Service Operations Supervisor for Interpretation, and viewed local wildlife and geographic features. In the evening, the President returned to Hotel Captain Cook in Anchorage, where he remained overnight.  September 2 In the morning, the President traveled to Dillingham, AK. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Kanakanak Beach, where he met with local fishermen and their families and viewed a demonstration of local salmon preparation methods. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Dillingham Middle/High School, where he attended and participated in a student cultural performance featuring Yup'ik dancing. Then, at N&N Market, he met with patrons. Later, he traveled to Kotzebue, AK. While en route aboard Air Force One, he participated in a fly-over of the island village of Kivalina, an Alaska Native community of 400 people whose coastline has begun receding into the ocean as a result of rising sea levels. In the evening, at Kotzebue Middle High School, the President participated in an interview and photographic shoot with Jeff Goodell of Rolling Stone magazine for later publication. Later, he traveled to the site of the Shore Avenue Erosion Project, where he viewed the city's beach reconstruction and erosion-prevention efforts. Then, at the sea wall overlooking the Kotzebue Sound, he continued his interview with Rolling Stone's Jeff Goodell. Also at the sea wall, he recorded a self-narrated video on the impact of climate change on Alaska's landscape and native cultures for later online broadcast. Later in the evening, while en route to Anchorage, AK, the President stopped at the huskie kennel of John Baker, the 2011 Iditaroddog sledding champion, where he met with Mr. Baker and his family, was presented with a Team Baker hat and jacket, and held two of Mr. Baker's puppies. Then, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning. September 3 The White House announced that the President will travel to Boston, MA, on September 7.  The White House announced that the President will award the 2014 National Medal of Arts and the National Humanities Medal on September 10. September 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had a working lunch with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2015 NCAA Champion Duke University men's basketball team on September 8.  September 4 During the day, in the Oval Office, the President participated in departure photographs with Maurice Owens, outgoing Special Assistant to the White House Chief of Staff, and members of his family. September 5 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to offer his condolences for the deaths of 45 Emirati servicemembers fighting Houthi rebels in Sana'a, Yemen, on September 4.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. September 6 The White House announced that the President and Jill T. Biden, wife of Vice President Joe Biden, will travel to Warren, MI, on September 9. September 7 In the morning, the President traveled to Boston, MA. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Union Oyster House restaurant, where he purchased clam chowder and visited with patrons. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. September 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The President announced that he has nominated Clare E. Connors to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii. The President announced that he has nominated Stephanie A. Gallagher to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The President announced that he has nominated Mary S. McElroy to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Rhode Island. The President announced that he has nominated Edward L. Gilmore to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Illinois. The President announced that he has appointed the following individuals as members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board: Regina D. Blye; Christopher S. Hart; Mathew McCollough; Victor S. Pineda; and Karen M. Tamley. September 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President and Jill T. Biden, wife of Vice President Biden, traveled to Warren, MI, where, at Macomb Community College, they toured the Michigan Technical Education Center with Engineering and Advanced Technology Workforce and Continuing Education Director Holger Ekanger and met with students. Then, at the college's Sports and Expo Center, they met with members of the College Promise Advisory Board. Later, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Obama will greet Pope Francis on his arrival in the U.S. at Joint Base Andrews, MD, on September 22. September 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President held a conference call with over 500 rabbis in observance of Rosh Hashanah. During the call, he discussed the multilateral agreement to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, Israel's security, and Israel-U.S. relations. The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara J. Lee, Christopher H. Smith, and Cassandra Q. Butts to be Representatives of the United States to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. September 11 In the morning, on the South Lawn, the President and Mrs. Obama participated in a moment of silence to mark the 14th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Later, in the Oval Office, he had an intelligence briefing, followed by a meeting with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Fort Meade, MD, where, at the National Security Agency, he met with military and civilian intelligence personnel to thank them for their ongoing support in defense of the Nation. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. The White House announced that the President will travel to Des Moines, IA, on September 14. The White House announced that the President will welcome the 2015 NCAA Champion University of Connecticut women's basketball team to the White House on September 15. September 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA. Then, he traveled to the Ola Babcock Miller Building, where at the State Library of Iowa, he was greeted by State Librarian Michael Scott and participated in an interview with novelist Marilynne Robinson for the New York Review of Books. Later, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. September 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, he and Mrs. Obama greeted King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia of Spain.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore to congratulate him on his party's victory in recent elections and discuss U.S.-Singapore relations. He also had separate telephone conversations with outgoing Prime Minister Anthony J. Abbott and Prime Minister-elect Malcolm B. Turnbull of Australia to thank Prime Minister Abbott for his strong support of Australia-U.S. relations and wish him well in the future, congratulate Prime Minister-elect Turnbull on his selection as Prime Minister, and pledge to continue working with Australia on a range of issues of mutual interest.  The White House announced that the President will welcome President Xi Jinping of China on September 25. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert M. Califf to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs at the Department of Health and Human Services. The President announced his intention to nominate Eduardo Castell to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Deborah R. Malac to be Ambassador to Uganda. The President announced his intention to nominate Lisa J. Peterson to be Ambassador to Swaziland. The President announced his intention to nominate H. Dean Pittman to be Ambassador to Mozambique. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda A. Puchala to be a member of the National Mediation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric S. Rubin to be Ambassador to Bulgaria. The President announced his intention to nominate Kyle R. Scott to be Ambassador to Serbia. The President announced his intention to appoint Octaviana Trujillo as a member of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation. The President announced that he has nominated Rebecca Goodgame Ebinger to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Iowa. September 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Bethesda, MD, where at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, he visited with wounded U.S. servicemembers and their families. Later, he traveled to Mark O. Hatfield Clinical Research Center, a facility of the National Institutes of Health, to visit with another wounded U.S. servicemember. Then, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with Gov. Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown, Jr., of California to receive an update on the recent wildfires, express his concern about the severe damage in California and its impact on citizens, offer his gratitude for the firefighters, local authorities, and emergency managers working to combat the fires and evacuate people out of harm's way, and reiterate his support for assisting California in building resilience toward climate change.  The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on November 9. September 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the oval office, he had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to follow up on their September 4 meeting at the White House, discuss regional issues, including the humanitarian situation in Yemen and recent violence and tensions at the Haram Al-Sharif/Temple Mount in Jerusalem, Israel, and reaffirm Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a credentialing ceremony for newly appointed Ambassadors to the U.S. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. Later, at the St. Regis Washington, D.C. hotel, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser.   September 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Roosevelt Room, the President and Vice President Biden met with members of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. Later, he had a telephone conservation with President Raúl Castro Ruz of Cuba to discuss the normalization of Cuba-U.S. relations in advance of Pope Francis's upcoming visits to Cuba and the United States, commend the role that Pope Francis played in advancing Cuba-U.S. diplomatic ties, and note the cooperation between U.S. and Cuban medical professionals during the U.S. Naval Ship Comfort's recent humanitarian mission to Haiti. The President announced his intention to nominate Ricardo A. Aguilera to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Management at the Department of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Janine Davidson to be Under Secretary of the Navy. The President announced his intention to nominate Lisa S. Disbrow to be Under Secretary of the Air Force. The President announced his intention to nominate Eric K. Fanning to be Secretary of the Army. The President announced his intention to nominate Shoshana Lew to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Transportation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jennifer M. O'Connor to be General Counsel at the Department of Defense. The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas A. Shannon to be Under Secretary for Political Affairs at the Department of State. September 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said of Oman to him for his efforts to secure the release of  Scott Darden and Sam Farran , U.S. citizens detained in Sanaa, Yemen, by Shiite Houthi rebels fighting Government forces and for his continued assistance in attending to the situation in Yemen. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo of Indonesia to the White House on October 26.  September 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill T. Biden traveled to Joint Base Andrews, MD, where they greeted Pope Francis upon his arrival. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to the White House. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the refugee crisis in Europe and the need for EU countries to accept their fair share of refugees and reiterate the importance of Russia's adherence to the Minsk agreements in resolving the situation in eastern Ukraine. The President announced a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the Valley Fire beginning on September 12 and continuing. September 23 In the morning, in the Grand Foyer and Red Room, the President participated in a gift presentation with Pope Francis. Then, in the Oval Office, he met with the Pope. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he had a telephone conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss the status of Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, the importance of concluding the trade deal expediently, and Mexico-U.S. relations. September 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the refugee crisis in Europe, the situation in Syria, their joint commitment to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and the importance of reaching a strong international agreement at the upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris. He also had a telephone with Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras of Greece to congratulate him on his election victory and his party's success in the recent parliamentary elections, discuss the refugee crisis in Europe, and reaffirm Greek-U.S. relations.   Also during the day, the President has a telephone conversation with President Ollanta Moises Humala Tasso of Peru to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations and other economic issues.  In the evening, at the Blair House, the President had a working dinner for President Xi Jinping of China. Vice President Biden also attended.  The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the President's Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships: Carroll A. Baltimore; Preeta Bansal; David Beckmann; Kara Bobroff; Jennifer Butler; Steve Gutow; Aziza Hasan; Lanae Erickson Hatalsky; David Jeffrey; Jo Anne Lyon; Michael McBride; Nipun Mehta; Kevin Ryan; Gabriel A. Salguero; Stephen Schneck; Jasjit Singh; Alexie Torres-Fleming; and Deborah Weinstein.  September 25 In the morning in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with President Xi Jinping of China. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he had an expanded bilateral meeting with President Xi. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner to discuss his resignation from Congress. Later, he traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, on the North Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted President Xi of China and his wife Peng Liyuan. Then, on the Grand Staircase, they participated in a photographic opportunity with President Xi and Mrs. Peng.  The White House announced that the President will travel to New York City on September 27. September 27 In the morning, the President traveled to New York City. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Michelle Bachelet Jeria of Chile to discuss Chile-U.S. economic relations, the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, the upcoming U.N. General Assembly meetings, and the Our Ocean Conference to be hosted by Chile in October. President Obama also reiterated his condolences for the loss of life caused by the September 16 earthquake. Upon arrival in New York City, he traveled to the Lotte New York Palace hotel. In the afternoon, the President traveled to United Nations Headquarters. Later, at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, he met with Mission employees and their families. Then, he returned to the Lotte New York Palace hotel. Later, he traveled to Gotham Hall. In the evening, the President returned to the Lotte New York Palace hotel. September 28 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to United Nations Headquarters in New York City. In the afternoon, in the Economic and Social Council Chamber at U.N. Headquarters, the President participated in a family photograph for the Leaders' Summit onPeacekeeping. Later, in the Security Council Consultations Room, he met with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situations in Ukraine and Syria. In the evening, the President returned to the Lotte New York Palace hotel, where, in the Villard Ballroom, he and Mrs. Obama hosted a reception for visiting heads of state and government attending the U.N. General Assembly. September 29 In the morning, the President traveled to United Nations Headquarters, where, in Conference Room C, he met with President Raúl Castro Ruz of Cuba to discuss Cuba-U.S. relations, the recent visit of Pope Francis to both countries, U.S. regulatory changes regarding travel by U.S. citizens to Cuba, and human rights in Cuba. Later, following the Leaders' Summit on Countering ISIL and Violent Extremism, in the Trusteeship Council Chamber, he met with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq. In the afternoon, in Conference Room C, the President met with President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan. Later, he and Mrs. Obama returned to Washington, DC. September 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Joaquin. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President greeted wounded U.S. servicemembers and their families during a tour of the White House. October 1 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. During the day, the President was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Joaquin. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Malcolm B. Turnbull of Australia to discuss Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and the situation in Syria. October 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President received a briefing Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco, and other senior staff to discuss the Federal Government's preparations for Hurricane Joaquin. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he recorded a video message to be broadcast to participants in the Our Ocean Conference in Chile on October 5. The White House announced that the President will travel to Emmitsburg, MD, on October 4. The President announced his intention to nominate Todd C. Chapman to be Ambassador to Ecuador. The President announced his intention to nominate Steven M. Haro to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Commerce. The President announced his intention to nominate John Kotek to be Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy at the Department of Energy. The President announced his intention to nominate Carolyn N. Lerner to be Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel. The President announced his intention to nominate Matthew J. Matthews for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Senior Official for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael J. Missal to be Inspector General at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The President announced his intention to appoint Pamela K. Anderson and Gebisa Ejeta as members of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. The President announced his intention to appoint Ronald A. Cass, Jonathan Sallet, and Jane Sherburne as members of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the U.S. The President announced his intention to appoint Bo Thao-Urabe as a member of the President's Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. October 3 During the day, the President was briefed on the U.S. military airstrike on a Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, that killed and injured several patients and staff. The President declared an emergency in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local response efforts in the areas affected by severe storms and flooding beginning on October 1 and continuing. October 4 In the morning, the President traveled to Emmitsburg, MD.  In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. October 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The President declared a major disaster in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and flooding beginning on October 1 and continuing. October 6 In the morning the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, at the Department of Agriculture, the President and Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack taped an interview with Tom Steever of Brownfield Ag News Radio for later broadcast. Also at the Department of Agriculture, he taped an interview with Kai Ryssdal of NPR's "Marketplace" program. Then, in the Private Dining Room, he and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he taped an interview with Steve Kroft of CBS's "60 Minutes" program for later broadcast. October 7 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Doctors Without Borders /Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) International President Joanne Liu to apologize and offer condolences for the loss of life and injury among patients and MSF staff as a result of the mistaken U.S. military airstrike on a hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, on October 3, offer assurances that the Department of Defense would conduct a thorough, objective, and transparent investigation into the incident, and pledge full cooperation with the joint investigations being conducted with NATO and the Afghan Government. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai of Afghanistan to commend the bravery of Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, offer his condolences for the deaths and injuries caused by the U.S. airstrike on the MSF hospital in Kunduz, and discuss Afghanistan-U.S. relations. Later, in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will travel to the San Francisco, CA, area on October 9 and 10. The White House announced that President will travel to the Los Angeles, CA, area on October 10. The White House announced that President will travel to the San Diego, CA, area from October 10 through 12. October 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will travel to Roseburg, OR, on October 9. The President announced his intention to nominate Dana J. Boente to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.  The President announced his intention to nominate Robert L. Capers to be U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York. The President announced his intention to nominate John P. Fishwick, Jr., to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Virginia. The President announced his intention to nominate Channing D. Phillips to be U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia. The President announced his intention to nominate Emily Gray Rice to be U.S. attorney for the District of New Hampshire. The President announced his intention to nominate Randolph J. Seiler to be U.S. attorney for the District of South Dakota.  The President announced his intention to nominate Amos J. Hochstein to be Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources at the Department of State. The President announced his intention to nominate David McKean to be Ambassador to Luxembourg. The President announced his intention to appoint Raymond Dolan to be a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.  October 9 In the morning, the President traveled to Roseburg, OR, arriving in the afternoon. Upon arrival at Roseburg Regional Airport, he was joined by Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon, who updated the President on the shootings at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg on October 1 and the State's ongoing efforts to provide support and resources to the families affected. In the afternoon, the President and Gov. Brown traveled to Roseburg High School, where he met with families of the victims killed in the October 1 shootings at Umpqua Community College. Then, also at Roseburg High School, he met with first responders and college administrators to thank them for their admirable response to the October 1 shootings and express his condolences to the school community. Later, he traveled to Seattle, WA, where at the Westin Seattle hotel, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser.  In the evening, the President traveled to San Francisco, where at a private residence, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he traveled to the Fairmont San Francisco hotel, where he remained overnight. October 10 In the morning, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, at a private residence, the President attended a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee fundraiser.  During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to offer his condolences for the loss of life and injuries due to the terrorist attack at a peace rally in Ankara, Turkey, and reaffirm U.S. solidarity with Turkey in the effort combat terrorism. In the evening, the President traveled to Rancho Santa Fe, CA, where at the Rancho Valencia Resort & Spa in, he remained overnight. October 12 In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. October 13 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch. October 14 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Then, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will host a White House Astronomy Night event for students, teachers, scientists, astronauts, and others on October 19. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to Capt. Florent A. Groberg, USA, on November 12. October 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Cheryl Reeve, head coach of the Women's National Basketball Association's Minnesota Lynx, to congratulate her on her team's victory in  the WNBA Finals. Then, he had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss strengthening Turkey-U.S. cooperation in the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, reiterate his condolences for the October 10 terrorist attack in Ankara, and stress the urgent need to stop the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) attacks in Turkey.  The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by the severe windstorm on August 29. October 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, they met with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President and Vice President Biden had a working lunch with President Park. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to discuss  the importance of establishing conditions for a political transition in Syria and the urgency of expanding humanitarian assistance in Yemen. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe windstorm on August 29. October 19 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President had a telephone conversation with National Aeronautics and Space Administration astronauts Scott J. Kelly and Kjell N. Lindgren aboard the International Space Station. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with Secretary of the Treasury Jacob J. Lew. The White House announced that the President will travel to Charleston, WV, on October 21. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan on October 22. The White House announced that the President will host the White House Tribal Nations Conference on November 5. October 20 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with 2014 Enrico Fermi Award recipients Claudio Pellegrini and Charles V. Shank. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. Then, also in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. Also in the afternoon, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister-designate Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada to congratulate him on his party's victory in parliamentary elections and discuss Canada-U.S. relations, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and the upcoming U.N. climate change conference in Paris, France. The President announced his intention to nominate Hester M. Peirce and Lisa M. Fairfax to be Commissioners on the Securities and Exchange Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Etim to be a member of the Board of Directors for the African Development Foundation. The President announced his intention to nominate Jean E. Manes to be Ambassador to El Salvador. The President announced his intention to nominate Scot A. Marciel to be Ambassador to Burma. The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Swartz Taglialatela to be Ambassador to Barbados, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by wildfires and mudslides from August 9 through September 10. October 21 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President had a separate meeting with Vice President Biden. Then, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Stephen J. Harper of Canada to discuss Canada-U.S. relations and the Trans-Pacific Partnership and wish him well in his future endeavors. In the afternoon, in the Rose Garden, the President attended Vice President Biden's announcement that he would not be a candidate in the 2016 Presidential election. Then, he traveled to Charleston, WV. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, in the State Dining Room, the President hosted a working reception for House and Senate Democrats to discuss trade issues. The White House announced that the President will host a panel discussion on criminal justice reform on October 22. The White House announced that the President will welcome the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team on October 27 to congratulate them on their victory in the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup. October 22 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. October 23 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Map Room, the President recorded a video address for broadcast during the October 31 peace rally in Rabin Square in Tel Aviv, Israel, commemorating the 20th anniversary of the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel. Then, also in the Map Room, he recorded a Facebook video post on the administration's call to reduce standardized testing in K–12 schools for online broadcast on October 24. Later, at the Grand Hyatt Washington hotel, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. October 25 In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to discuss international diplomatic efforts to address the situation in Syria, ongoing political unrest and violence in Yemen, the political situation in Libya, and efforts to combat Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula and other terrorist groups. The White House announce that the President will travel to Chicago, IL, on October 27 and 28. October 26 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, also in the Oval Office, the President met with teachers and representatives of States and school districts to discuss shared efforts to reduce the amount of time students spend on redundant or low-quality tests, while still ensuring that teachers and parents have the information they need on student progress. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and Acting Secretary of Education John B. King, Jr., also attended. In the afternoon, the President, White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, and Director of Legislative Affairs Katie Beirne Fallon walked to the Metropolitan Club, where the President attended a luncheon hosted by former Sens. Thomas A. Daschle and George J. Mitchell. Later, in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry. The White House announced that the President will travel to Turkey, the Philippines, and Malaysia from November 14 through 22. October 27 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss cooperative efforts to counter the shared threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization, international diplomatic efforts to achieve a political transition in Syria, the situation in Yemen, and Saudi Arabia-U.S. relations.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL, where in the North Service Hallway of the McCormick Place conference center, he met with spouses and children of law enforcement officers who were killed in the line of duty. Also at McCormick Place, in the East Service Corridor, he met with the families of bystander victims of gun violence in Chicago. Later, at the PowerReviews headquarters, he attended Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee roundtable fundraiser.  In the evening, at the United Center, the President attended a basketball game between the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls and Cleveland Cavaliers. Later, he traveled to his Hyde Park-Kenwood residence, where he remained overnight. October 28 In the morning, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with outgoing Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL John R. Allen. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Rep. Paul D. Ryan to congratulate him on his election as Speaker of the House of Representatives and wish him well as he assumes his new responsibilities. October 29 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Amir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani of Qatar to discuss the importance of achieving a successful political transition in Syria and international diplomatic efforts to facilitate a resolution to the conflict, underscore their support for the United Nations role in continued political negotiations in Libya, and review joint efforts to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization and other extremist groups.  In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, they met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. In the evening, the President traveled to McLean, VA, where at a private residence, he attended a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee roundtable fundraiser. Later, he returned to Washington, DC. October 30 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Haidar al-Abadi of Iraq to discuss the political and security situation in Iraq, underscore U.S. support for Iraq in its fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization, note recent progress made by Iraqi security forces in Bayji and Ramadi, and commend the Prime Minister's efforts to combat corruption and implement governance reforms critical to promoting Iraq's political stability and economic prosperity. In the afternoon, on the South Portico, the President and Mrs. Obama greeted local schoolchildren and children of U.S. servicemembers trick-or-treating at the White House for Halloween. The White House announced that the President will travel to Newark, NJ, on November 2. The White House announced new details concerning the President's participation in the White House Tribal Nations Conference on November 5. The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm on August 27. November 1 The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Alassane Dramane Ouattara as President of Cote d'Ivoire in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire, on November 3: Thomas A. Shannon (head of delegation); Terence P. McCulley; and Linda Thomas-Greenfield. November 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Newark, NJ. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Manager Edgar F. "Ned" Yost III of Major League Baseball's  Kansas City Royals to congratulate him on his team's victory in the World Series Championship. Upon arrival in Newark, he traveled to Integrity House, a nonprofit substance abuse rehabilitation center, where he toured the facilities and met with Sen. Cory A Booker, Newark Mayor Ras J. Baraka, and center staff and residents. Then, in the Green Room of the Integrity House, he recorded an interview with Lester Holt of NBC's "Nightly News With Lester Holt" program for later broadcast.  Later in the afternoon,, the President traveled to the Rutgers University–Newark campus, where, in the Reading Gallery of the Center for Law and Justice building, he participated in a roundtable discussion on prisoner reentry and rehabilitation programs with Sen. Booker, Mayor Baraka, and a group of returning prisoners and family members. Later, in the New Jersey Reference Room, he recorded another interview with NBC host Lester Holt. Then, he traveled to New York City.  In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. November 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he met with Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski and Rep. Nita M. Lowey to discuss the appropriations process and the Federal budget. November 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President participated in a teleconference call with Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell and Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in-person assisters and volunteers to discuss open enrollment in the Federal health insurance exchange. Later, he traveled to Potomac, MD. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. November 5 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President recorded separate "Live From the White House" interviews with Mary Shedden of WUSF in Tampa, FL, Alice Rios of KRLD in Dallas, TX, E.J. Becker of KMBZ in Kansas City, MO, Dave Ross of KIRO in Seattle, WA, and Ryan Cameron of WVEE in Atlanta, GA, to discuss the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the importance of reducing the number of people without health insurance. The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Brevard Stewart to be Ambassador to the Marshall Islands. The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Riley to be Ambassador to Micronesia. The President announced his intention to appoint Jaime Castillo as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  The President announced his intention to nominate Vik Edwin Stoll to be a judge on the U.S. Tax Court.  November 6 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. The White House announced that the President will award the Medal of Honor to Capt. Florent A. Groberg, USA, on November 12. November 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President met with National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and Secretary of State John F. Kerry prior to his meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of State Kerry. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. Then, also in the Oval office, he had separate telephone conversations with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu of Turkey to congratulate the Turkish people on the November 1 elections and preview the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Antalya, Turkey. They also discussed the situation in Syria, efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and the need to prevent terrorist attacks in Turkey by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorist organization. November 10 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India to discuss India-U.S. relations, the upcoming Group of Twenty (G–20) summit, East Asia Summit, and U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, and implementation of the Joint Strategic Vision for the Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean Region. The President also noted that the conversation represented the first use of the new secure line between the two leaders and wished Prime Minister Modi a happy Diwali. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with 2015 Nobel Prize winners William C. Campbell, Angus Deaton, Paul Modrich, and Aziz Sancar, and Sweden's Ambassador to the U.S. Bjorn Lyrvall and Norway's Ambassador to the U.S. Kare Aas. Later, also in the Oval Office, he met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Reuven Rivlin of Israel on December 9. The President announced his intention to nominate Beth F. Cobert to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management. November 11 In the morning, in the State Dining Room, the President hosted a Veterans Day breakfast for veterans and their families. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. Later, he and Vice President Biden traveled to Arlington, VA, where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Jacob Zuma of South Africa to discuss the upcoming U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, the situation in Burundi, and President Obama's November 5 notification to Congress regarding the African Growth and Opportunity Act. He also expressed his condolences for the death of a South African citizen in the November 9 shooting at the King Abdullah II Special Operations Training Center in Amman, Jordan. In the evening, the President had separate telephone conversations with National League for Democracy Party Leader Aung San Suu Kyi and President Thein Sein of Burma to discuss the November 8 parliamentary elections. He congratulated Aung San Suu Kyi on her party's success in the elections and discussed with both leaders the importance for all parties to respect the official results once announced and work together to form an inclusive, representative Government. He also noted that the election and formation of a new Government could be an important step forward in Burma's democratic transition. November 12 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces, to discuss the situations in Syria and Yemen and the need to support the Iraqi Government's efforts to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. In the afternoon, in the Cabinet Room, the President recorded an interview with George Stephanopoulos of ABC's "This Week" program for broadcast on November 15. During the day, the President was briefed on a U.S. airstrike  in Raqqa, Syria, targeting Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization member Mohammed Emwazi. The President announced his intention to appoint Joshua M. Javitz as Chair of Presidential Emergency Board No. 249. The President announced his intention to appoint Elizabeth Neumeier and Nancy E. Peace as members of Presidential Emergency Board No. 249. November 13 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the upcoming U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris and Group of Twenty (G–20) summit in Antalya, Turkey. Then, also in the Oval Office, he met with Archbishop Joseph E. Kurtz, President of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB); Cardinal Donald W. Wuerl, Archbishop of Washington, DC; and Monsignor Ronny Jenkins, General Secretary of the USCCB. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, in the Oval Office, he was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on the terrorist attacks in Paris, France. National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough, and White House Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest also attended. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to express his condolences for the terrorist attacks in Paris, offer U.S. support in the investigation, and pledge continued France-U.S. counterterrorism cooperation. November 14 In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President met with the National Security Council to review the latest intelligence concerning the terrorist attacks in Paris, France, on November 13, review the U.S. security posture in light of the attacks, reaffirm close coordination with French authorities investigating the attacks, and discuss diplomatic security measures at the U.S. Embassy in Paris. Then, he traveled to Antalya, Turkey, arriving the following morning. November 15 In the morning, upon arrival in Antalya, Turkey, the President traveled to the Calista Luxury Resort. Later, he traveled to the Regnum Carya Golf and Spa Resort. In the afternoon, at the Regnum Carya Resort, the President participate in a welcoming ceremony for Group of Twenty (G–20) leaders. Then, he participated in a family photograph with G–20 leaders, followed by a working lunch in the Leaders Dining Room. Later, also at the Regnum Carya Resort, in Plenary Hall, he attended a working session for G–20 leaders. During the day, at the Regnum Carya Resort, the President met with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin to discuss the situation in Syria, the November 13 terrorist attacks in Paris, France, the need for all nations to confront the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, international diplomatic efforts to resolve the situation in Ukraine, and the loss of Russian life in the October 31 crash of Metrojet Flight 9268 over Egypt. In the evening, in Villa 6300 of the Regnum Carya Golf and Spa Resort, the President met with King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia to discuss efforts to defeat ISIL, the horrific Paris attacks, the urgency of achieving a cease-fire and political transition in Syria, international diplomatic efforts to resolve the conflict there, the need to provide robust support to the moderate Syrian opposition, and methods to support the Iraqi Government's efforts to combat ISIL. Secretary of State John F. Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economics Caroline M. Atkinson, National Security Council Coordinator for Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Robert Malley, and Special Envoy for the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL Brett H. McGurk also attended. Then, also at the Regnum Carya Resort, in the Leaders Dining Room, he had a working dinner with G–20 leaders. Later, he returned to the Calista Luxury Resort, where he remained overnight. November 16 In the morning, in Candor 2 of the Calista Luxury Resort, the President visited with U.S. Embassy personnel. Then, he traveled to the Regnum Carya Golf and Spa Resort, where in Plenary Hall, he met with Group of Twenty (G–20) leaders. In the afternoon, in the Leaders Dining Room at the Regnum Carya Resort, the President had a working lunch for G–20 leaders. Later, in Villa 6300, he met with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development Laurent Fabius of France to discuss the November 13 terrorist attacks in Paris, the urgency of continuing and enhancing multilateral action to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, the international commitment to achieving a diplomatic resolution to the situation in Syria, efforts to mitigate the plight of those displaced by the Syrian conflict, and their agreement to maintain sanctions against Russia until full implementation of the Minsk agreements to resolve the situation in Ukraine is achieved. Secretary of State John F. Kerry and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice also attended. Later, he traveled to the Hotel Riu Kaya Palazzo 5 resort in Belek, Turkey. In the evening, the President traveled to Manila, Philippines, arriving the following morning. The White House announced that the President will present the Medal of Freedom on November 24. November 17 In the morning, upon arrival in Manila, Philippines, the President traveled to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Manila Harbor, where he toured the BRP Gregorio del Pilar, a former U.S. Coast Guard frigate now part of the Philippines Navy, with the ship's commanding officer, Capt. Vincent Sibala. Later, he traveled to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, where he remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome President François Hollande of France on November 24. November 18 In the afternoon, at the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, in the garden ten, the President participated in a family photograph with the leaders of  Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) countries. Later, he traveled to the Philippine International Convention Center, where he attended a Pacific Alliance meeting. Then, he returned to the Sofitel. During the day, the President received a briefing on the law enforcement action taking place in St. Denis, France, as part of the ongoing investigation into the November 13 terrorist attacks in Paris. In the evening, the President traveled to the SM Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay, Philippines, where he participated in a family photograph for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders. Then, he attended an APEC welcome dinner and cultural performance. Later, he returned to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel in Manila, where he remained overnight. November 19 In the morning, the President traveled to the Philippine International Convention Center, where he participated in a family photograph for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders. Then, also at the Philippine International Convention Center, in Meeting Room 1, he attended the opening session of the APEC retreat. In the afternoon, the President returned to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel. Later, he traveled to the Philippine International Convention Center, where in Meeting Room 1, he attended the second session of the APEC retreat. Later, also in Meeting Room 1, he attended the closing session of the APEC retreat. In the evening, the President returned to the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, where he remained overnight. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the latest developments in the investigation into the November 13 terrorist attacks in Paris, reiterate their joint commitment to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, underscore the need to bring to an end the conflict in Syria, and continue the fight against global terrorism.  The President announced his intention to nominate Philip Cullom to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment. The President announced his intention to nominate Swati A. Dandekar to be a U.S. Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the Rank of Ambassador. The President announced his intention to nominate Harry R. Hoglander to be a member of the National Mediation Board. The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel B. Maffei to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Georgette Mosbacher to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. The President announced his intention to nominate Patrick Pizzella to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. The President announced his intention to appoint Dave Eggers as a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President announced his intention to appoint William H. Graham as a member of the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin. The President announced his intention to appoint David C. Hill as a Commissioner of the Mississippi River Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint Barry Jackson as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The President announced that he has appointed Anthony M. Reardon as a member of the Federal Salary Council and member of the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations. November 20 In the morning, at the Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila hotel, in the garden tent, the President visited with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. Later, he traveled to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, arriving in the afternoon.  In the afternoon, the President traveled to Taylor's University in Subang Jaya, Malaysia. During the day, the President received a briefing on the terrorist attack and hostage crisis at the Radisson Blu Bamako Hotel in Bamako, Mali, from National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice. In the evening, the President traveled to the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre in Kuala Lumpur. Also in the evening, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy to discuss counterterrorism cooperation, the campaign to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and the urgent need to end the conflict in Syria. Later, he traveled to the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel, where he remained overnight.  The White House announced that the President will pardon the National Thanksgiving Turkey in the Rose Garden on November 25. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the state commemoration service for former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of Germany in Hamburg, Germany, on November 23: Henry A. Kissinger (head of delegation); and John B. Emerson.  November 21 In the morning, the President traveled to the Dignity for Children Foundation, where he toured the school and training center and met with some students. In the evening, the President traveled to the Kuala Lumpur City Centre, where, in Conference Room 2, he participated in a group photograph with Ambassadors to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations . Then, in Exhibition Halls 1 and 2, he attended an East Asia Summit gala dinner. Later, he returned to the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel, where he remained overnight.  November 22 In the morning, at the Ritz-Carlton, Kuala Lumpur hotel, in the Banquet Hall, the President met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.  November 24 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden met with President François Hollande of France. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss Turkey's downing of a Russian aircraft, U.S.-NATO support of Turkey's right to defend its sovereignty, the importance of reducing tensions with Russia and  reiterate their joint commitment to counter the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. November 25 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing.  In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Crystal Sanchez and Kenneth Huertas from Lawndale, CA, Urbana Anam and Jannatul "Alifa" Rowshan from New York City, Rachel Gorgas from Encinitas, CA, and Joseph Fortuno from Hercules, CA, winners of youth entrepreneurship competitions sponsored by the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship and Junior Achievement. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President-elect Mauricio Macri of Argentina to congratulate him on his election victory and discuss Argentina-U.S. relations. Then,, at St. Luke's Mission Center, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Sasha and Malia helped serve a Thanksgiving meal to individuals and families of the Friendship Place homeless center.  The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the state funeral service of former President Kim Young-sam of South Korea in Seoul, South Korea, on November 26: Mark W. Lippert (head of delegation); and Kathleen Stephens. The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from October 22 through 31.  November 26 In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with ten U.S. servicemembers from each branch of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service and to wish them a happy Thanksgiving. November 27 In the evening, the President was notified about the shootings at the Planned Parenthood Colorado Springs–Westside center in Colorado Springs, CO, by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco. November 28 In the afternoon, at Upshur Street Books, the President and his daughters Malia and Sasha purchased books, visited with staff and patrons, and promoted Small Business Saturday. Then, at Pleasant Pops, they purchased popsicles and visited with staff and patrons, also in recognition of Small Business Saturday. November 29 In the morning, the President traveled to Paris, France, arriving in the evening. Then, he traveled to the Bataclan concert hall, arriving early the following morning. November 30 In the morning, at the Bataclan concert hall in Paris, France, the President laid a rose at a memorial display for the victims of the November 13 terrorist attacks in Paris. He was joined by President François Hollande of France and Mayor Anne Hildago of Paris. Then, he traveled to the U.S. Ambassador's residence. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Le Bourget, France, where, in La Seine Plenary Hall at the Parc des Expositions, he participated in the opening ceremony of the U.N. Climate Change Conference. Then, at the Parc des Expositions, the President participated in a family photograph with leaders of countries participating in the U.N. Climate Change Conference.  In the afternoon, at the Parc des Expositions, he attended a lunch hosted by President François Hollande of France. Later, he returned to the U.S. Ambassador's residence in Paris. During the day, at the Parc des Expositions, on the margins of the U.N. Climate Change Conference, the President met with President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia to discuss the situations in Syria and Ukraine. President Obama expressed his regret for the death of a crewmember in the downing of a Russian military aircraft by Turkey, reiterated U.S. support for the deescalation of tensions between Russia and Turkey, and stressed the need for President Bashar al-Asad of Syria to leave power and the imperative of focusing military efforts against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. President Obama also emphasized the importance of working towards a diplomatic solution to the crisis in eastern Ukraine and noted that if the Minsk agreement is fully implemented, international and U.S. sanctions against Russia can be rolled back. In the evening, the President traveled to Paris, where, at L'Ambroisie restaurant, he attended a working dinner with President Hollande. Later, he returned to the U.S. Ambassador's residence, where he remained overnight. The President announced that he has nominated Steven N. Berk and Elizabeth Carroll Wingo to be judges on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. December 1 In the morning, the President traveled to Issy-les-Moulineaux, France, where at the OECD Development Centre, he met with U.S. Embassy personnel and their families.  In the afternoon, at the OECD Development Centre, he participated in a family photograph with President Anote Tong of Kiribati, President Christopher Jorebon Loeak of the Marshall Islands, Prime Minister Peter Paire O'Neill of Papua New Guinea, Prime Minister Kenny Anthony of Saint Lucia, and Prime Minister Freundel Stuart of Barbados. Later, also at the OECD Development Centre, he participated in a television interview with Laurence Haïm of France's CANAL+/iTELE television network.  Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. December 2 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch. Later, he was briefed by Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Adviser Lisa O. Monaco on the shootings at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, CA. Then, in the Roosevelt and Cabinet Rooms, he participated in an interview with Norah O'Donnell of CBS News for later broadcast. December 3 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he met with a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives to discuss criminal justice reform legislation. Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, Deputy Attorney General Sally Quillian Yates, Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett, White House Counsel W. Neil Eggleston, Domestic Policy Council Director Cecilia Muñoz, and Cabinet Secretary Broderick D. Johnson also attended. Prior to the meeting, Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey, Jr., briefed the group on the December 2 shootings at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, CA. Also in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Mayor R. Carey Davis of San Bernardino, CA, to discuss the shootings in San Bernardino. In the afternoon, in the East Room, the President met with departing White House interns and participated in a question-and-answer session. The President announced his intention to nominate Marcela Escobari to be Assistant Administrator for Latin America and the Caribbean at the U.S. Agency for International Development. The President announced his intention to nominate Charlotte Power Kessler and Esperanza Spalding to be members of the National Council on the Arts. The President announced that he has appointed Tom A. Bernstein as Chairperson of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The President announced that he has appointed Allan M. Holt as Vice Chairperson of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. December 4 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, also in the Oval office, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister David W.D. Cameron of the United Kingdom to discuss the British Parliament's decision to authorize airstrikes against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization targets in Syria and United Kingdom-U.S. counterterrorism cooperation. The President also accepted the Prime Minister's condolences for the loss of life in the December 2 shootings at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, CA. Also in the morning, the President was briefed on the shootings in San Bernardino. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with former Rep. Gabrielle D. Giffords and her husband Mark E. Kelly to discuss ways to reduce gun violence. Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett also attended. December 5 In the morning, in the Situation Room, the President received an update from Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey, Jr., Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson, and members of his national security team on the ongoing investigation into the December 2 shootings at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, CA, potential evidence of radicalization on the part of suspected perpetrators Tashfeen Malik and Syed Rizwan Farook, and the FBI's efforts to coordinate with State and local law enforcement to pursue every angle of the inquiry. Vice President Joe Biden participated via video teleconference. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the horrific shootings in San Bernardino, CA, accept President Hollande's condolences for the loss of life in the attack, update President Hollande on the latest details of the investigation, and pledge continued France-U.S. cooperation in the fight against terrorism. They also discussed negotiations underway at the U.N. Climate Conference in Paris, France. The White House announced that the President will no longer attend the 2015 Kennedy Center Honors Gala at the Kennedy Center at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts on December 6. The White House announced that the President will address the Nation on the shootings in San Bernardino, CA, operations to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, and ongoing efforts to counter terrorist threats at home and abroad on December 6. The White House announced that the President will attend 2015 Kennedy Center Honors Gala at the Kennedy Center at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts following his Oval Office address to the Nation on December 6. December 6 In the evening, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the President and Mrs. Obama attended the 2015 Kennedy Center Honors Gala. December 7 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Then, in the Cabinet Room, he met with the Ambassadors to the United Nations of the 15 current U.N. Security Council members along with those of the 5 countries whose 2-year elected terms on the Council begin in January 2016 to discuss efforts to promote peace and security of people around the world including strengthening human rights, reducing the impact of infectious diseases, and combating international terrorism. U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samantha Power and National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice also attended. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President had lunch with former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Then, in the Oval Office, he recorded an interview with comedian Jerry Seinfeld of the online series "Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee" for later broadcast. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Dilma Vana Rousseff of Brazil to discuss ongoing progress in the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, and their joint commitment to reach an ambitious climate change agreement. In the evening, on the State Floor, the President and Mrs. Obama hosted the Congressional Ball. December 8 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India to discuss the ongoing U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, and emphasize their joint interest in securing a strong climate change agreement. The President accepted the Prime Minister's condolences for the loss of life in the December 2 terrorist attack San Bernardino, CA. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter. Later, at the Jefferson, Washington, DC hotel, he attended a Democratic National Committee roundtable fundraiser. December 9 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Mauricio Macri as President of Argentina in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on December 10: Anthony R. Foxx (head of delegation); Noah Mamet; and Roberta S. Jacobson.  The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks and sign the Every Student Succeeds Act on December 10.  December 10 In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to discuss the status of the ongoing negotiations at the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, and underscore their firm commitment to reaching an ambitious and durable climate change agreement. President Obama also thanked President Hollande for deploying the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle to the Persian Gulf to undertake naval strike operations to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping to discuss coordinated efforts at the ongoing U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, and their joint commitment to achieving an ambitious climate agreement. The President announced his intention to nominate Andrew Mayock to be Deputy Director for Management at the Office of Management and Budget. The President announced his intention to nominate Edith Ramirez to be a Commissioner and Chair of the Federal Trade Commission. The President announced his intention to nominate Alan J. Kreczko and James R. White to be members of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board. The President announced his intention to appoint John F. Kirby as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of State. December 11 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Biden had lunch.  The White House announced that the President will deliver remarks during a naturalization ceremony at the National Archives and Records Administration on December 15. December 13 In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China to his express appreciation for the important role China played in securing an historic climate agreement at the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, on December 12 and review the contributions made by their joint announcement of climate targets in November 2014, their joint statement on climate in September 2015, and pledge the close coordination of their negotiating teams in Paris toward securing the agreement.  December 14 In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, where in Meeting Room 869 at the Pentagon, he had a meeting with the National Security Council to discuss the campaign to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization. Vice President Joe Biden also attended. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Also in the afternoon, he released a Facebook post commemorating the third anniversary of the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT, on December 14, 2012. During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President François Hollande of France to thank and congratulate him and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development Laurent Fabius for their leadership in achieving the historic multilateral agreement reached at the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, on December 12 and discuss joint efforts toward implementation of the agreement. He also had a telephone conversation with President Dilma Vana Rousseff of Brazil to thank and congratulate her and Minister of the Environment Izabella Teixeira for the successful Paris agreement and Brazil's important role in achieving a comprehensive climate implementation plan. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to thank him for his leadership in achieving the historic U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change agreement in Paris, France, on December 12, underscore their joint commitment to implement the agreement, and discuss the deteriorating situation in Burundi and the urgent need to begin internationally mediated dialogue. December 15 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Private Dining Room, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had lunch. Later, in the Roosevelt Room, he participated in an off-the-record interview with several news columnists, including David Ignatius of the Washington Post. During the day, the President was informed of the decision by Los Angeles Unified School District to close all public schools for the day in response to a bomb threat received by members of the Los Angeles Board of Education. December 16 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Then, he had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India to thank him for his vision and leadership in achieving the historic climate agreement at the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris, France, on December 12, underscore the importance of implementing the agreement, including through the Mission Innovation initiative, and discuss close and strong India-U.S. cooperation on a range of issues. In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, the President met with former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City to discuss efforts to prevent gun violence and thank Mayor Bloomberg for his leadership as U.N. Special Envoy for Cities and Climate in helping to achieve the historic U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change agreement in Paris, France, on December 12. White House Senior Adviser Valerie B. Jarrett also attended. Later, also in the Oval Office, he and Vice President Biden met with Secretary of State John F. Kerry.  The White House announced that the President will travel to San Bernardino, CA, en route to Honolulu, HI, on December 18 The President announced his intention to appoint Marie Greene as a member of the Arctic Research Commission. The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Panel of Arbitrators of the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes: Joan Donoghue; Paolo Di Rosa; David Huebner; Rosemary Barkett; Lucinda A. Low; and Pedro Martinez-Fraga.  The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the U.S. Advisory Council on Human Trafficking: Evelyn Chumbow; Harold d'Souza; Minh Dang; Tina Frundt; Ima Matul Maisaroh; Ronny Marty; Florencia Molina; Bukola Love Oriola; Suamhirs Piraino-Guzman; Sheila White; and Shandra Woworuntu. The President announced that he has nominated Paul L. Abrams to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The President announced that he has nominated Suzanne Mitchell and Scott L. Palk to be judges on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma. The President announced that he has nominated Ronald G. Russell to be a judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. December 17 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. Later, he traveled to McLean, VA, where in Room OP200 of the National Counterterrorism Center, he received a briefing from his national security team. Vice President Biden also attended. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. Later, in the Cabinet Room, he recorded an  interview with Steve Inskeep of NPR's "Morning Edition" program for later broadcast. The White House announced further details on the President and Mrs. Obama's visit to San Bernardino, CA, on December 18. The White House announced that the President and the First Family will travel to Honolulu, HI, on December 18. The President announced his intention to nominate Michael O. Johanns to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced intention to nominate Adam H. Sterling to be Ambassador to Slovakia. The President announced intention to nominate Morton H. Halperin to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The President announced intention to nominate Dain Borges, Thavolia Glymph, and Deborah Wong to be members of the National Council on the Humanities. December 18 In the morning, in the Oval Office, the President and Vice President Joe Biden had an intelligence briefing. In the afternoon, in the Diplomatic Reception Room, the President participated in a photographic opportunity with Gold Star families who were at the White House attending a private screening of "Star Wars." Later, he, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to San Bernardino, CA, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President made separate telephone calls to Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul D. Ryan, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader A. Mitchell McConnell, and Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid to congratulate them on the passage of the omnibus spending bill, H.R. 2029. He also signed into law H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey to discuss the current dispute between Turkey and Iraq over recent Turkish military action in northern Iraq, efforts to deescalate tensions, the need for Turkey to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, and the importance of continued diplomatic efforts between the United States, Turkey, and Iraq to coordinate military efforts against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization as well as work toward a broader resolution of the situation in Syria. Also during the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates, to express appreciation for the United Arab Emirates' commitment to an expanded role in international efforts to destroy the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization, international diplomatic efforts to resolve the situation in Syria, and the urgent need for all parties in Yemen to adhere to the negotiated cease-fire and engage the U.N.-facilitated peace talks as an opportunity to advance a deescalation of the fighting. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Indian Springs High School, where in the library, they visited privately with the families of 14 victims of the terrorist attack at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino on December 2. Then, also at Indian Springs High School, in the Resource Room, he met with local first responders and law enforcement professionals, including individuals who responded to the incident. Later, they and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Honolulu, HI, arriving the following morning. December 19 In the morning, upon arrival at Joint Base Pearl Harbor—Hickam in Honolulu, HI, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to their vacation residence in Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, where he remained overnight. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 20 In the morning, the President and Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to the Hawaii Nature Center in Honolulu, HI. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to their vacation residence in Kailua, HI. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Honolulu. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. December 21 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President traveled to the Mid Pacific Country Club. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, where he remained overnight. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 22 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he and Mrs. Obama traveled to Koko Head District Park in Honolulu, HI. Then, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. December 23 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he traveled to Kapolei, HI. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, where he remained overnight. The President declared a major disaster in Idaho and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the area affected by a severe storm and straight-line winds on November 17. December 24 In the morning, the President traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he and his daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to the Judd Memorial Trail, part of the Honolulu Mauka Trail System in Honolulu, HI. In the afternoon, the President and his daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with deployed U.S. servicemembers from each branch of the Armed Forces to thank them for their service and dedication.  In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Honolulu. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of Roch Marc Christian Kaboré as President of Burkina Faso in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, on December 29: Linda Thomas-Greenfield (head of delegation); Tulinabo S. Mushingi; and David M. Rodriguez. December 25 In the afternoon, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI, where they visited with U.S. servicemembers and their families. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama returned to their vacation in Kailua, HI, where they remained overnight. December 26 In the afternoon, the President traveled Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Later, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI, where he remained overnight. December 27 In the morning, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha and Malia traveled to Bellows Air Force Station in Waimanalo, HI. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Kailua, HI, where at Island Snow, they purchased shave ice and greeted customers and staff. Then, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua. Later, they traveled to Honolulu, HI, arriving in the evening. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. December 28 In the morning, the President traveled Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI, where he received an update on the progress made by Iraq's security forces against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization in Ramadi, Iraq. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. Gregory W. Abbott of Texas to receive an update on the severe winter storms in Texas, offer Federal assistance for recovery efforts, and express his and Mrs. Obama's condolences for the loss of life due to the severe weather that affected the area from December 24 through December 27. Later, he traveled to the Mid Pacific Country Club. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President and Mrs. Obama traveled to Honolulu, HI. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. The White House announced that the President will welcome Prime Minister Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada on March 10, 2016. December 29 In the morning, the President traveled Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Hanauma Bay, HI. Later, they returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. The White House announced that the President will welcome President Juan Manuel Santos Calderon of Colombia on February 4, 2016. The President declared a major disaster in Oklahoma and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by severe winter storms and flooding from November 27 through 29. December 30 In the morning, the President traveled Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Also in the morning, he had a telephone conversation with Gov. Jeremiah W. "Jay" Nixon of Missouri to receive an update on the State's response to severe weather, offer Federal support and assistance, and express his and Mrs. Obama's condolences for the loss of life due to major flooding. In the afternoon, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha traveled to Mokuleia, HI. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. In the evening, the President, Mrs. Obama, and their daughters Malia and Sasha returned to their vacation residence in Kailua, where they remained overnight.The White House announced that the President will travel to Hannover, Germany, in late April. December 31 In the morning, the President traveled Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, HI. Then, he returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI. Later, he traveled to Honolulu, HI. In the afternoon, the President returned to his vacation residence in Kailua, HI, arriving in the evening, where he remained overnight. During the day, the President had an intelligence briefing. Names: Aas, Kare; Abadi, Haider al-; Abbott, Anthony J.; Abbott, Gregory W.; Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud, King; Abdallah bin Zayid Al Nuhayyan; Abdullah II, King; Abdullah, Abdullah; Abe, Akie; Abe, Shinzo; Abedini, Jacob; Abedini, Naghmeh; Abedini, Rebekka; Abedini, Saeed; Abrams, Paul L.; Adamson, Peter C.; Aguilera, Ricardo A.; Albright, Madeleine K.; Alexander, A. Lamar, Jr.; Allen, John R.; Allen, Scott; Allen, Will; Alsup, Carolyn P.; Amar, Akhil R.; Anam, Urbana; Anderson, Brooke, D.; Anderson, Pamela K.; Anthony, Kenny; Araud, Gerard; Arbeiter, Israel; Argrett, Brian E.; Asad, Bashar al-; Ash, Jim M.; Askin, Debbie; Atkinson, Caroline M.; Aung San Suu Kyi; Austin, Lloyd J., III; Austin, Wanda M.; Ayers, Edward L.; Bachelet Jeria, Michelle; Bai, Matt; Bailey, Vivian; Baker, James A., III; Baker, John; Balsiger, Jim W.; Baltimore, Carroll A.; Ban Ki-moon; Banga, Ajay; Bansal, Preeta; Baraka, Ras J.; Barkett, Rosemary; Barr, Ann Calvaresi; Barzani, Masoud; Bass, Karen R.; Batali, Mario; Baucus, Max S.; Baxter, Susan Paradise; Becker, E.J.; Becker, Julie H.; Beckmann, David; Belichick, William S.; Benioff, Lynne; Bera, Ami; Berger, Samuel R. "Sandy"; Berk, Steven N.; Berns, Peter V.; Bernstein, Inga S.; Bernstein, Tom A.; Beshar, Peter J.; Biden, Jill T.; Biden, Joseph R. "Beau," III; Biden, Joseph R., Jr.; Biden, Joseph, R., Jr.; Bilbassy-Charters, Nadia; Birx, Deborah L.; Black, Sandra E.; Blackburn, Elizabeth H.; Blahous, Charles P., III; Bloomberg, Michael R.; Blye, Regina D.; Bobroff, Kara; Bodde, Peter W.; Boehner, John A.; Boente, Dana J.; Booker, Cory A.; Borges, Dain; Borta, Karen; Bounds, Dennis; Boxer, Barbara L.; Brandt, Kate E.; Breckenridge, Anita Decker; Brennan, John O.; Brennan, Peter M.; Brett, James T.; Brevard Stewart, Karen; Briggs, Xavier de Souza; Brimmer, Esther; Brinsfield, Kathryn; Brooks, Karl; Brown, Doreen E.; Brown, Edmund G. "Jerry," Jr.; Brown, Gary R.; Brown, Kate; Bruner, Deborah Watkins; Bryan, Kelly; Buckius, Richard; Buhari, Muhammadu; Bunyan, Maureen; Burns, Ursula M.; Burrows, Olive; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Bush, George H.W.; Bush, George W.; Bush, Laura; Butler, Jennifer; Butts, Cassandra Q.; Cahill, Patricia; Caid Essebsi, Beji; Calhoun, Phillip; Califf, Robert M.; Camarillo, Gabriel; Cameron, David; Cameron, David W.D.; Cameron, Ryan; Camilla, Duchess; Campbell, William C.; Canegallo, Kristie A.; Canfield, Natoma A.; Capers, Robert L.; Capone, Kenneth; Carson, Brad R.; Carter, Ashton B.; Carter, Ashton, B.; Carter, James E., Jr.; Casas, Estela; Cass, Ronald A.; Castell, Eduardo; Castillo, Alejandra Y.; Castillo, Jaime; Castro Ruz, Raúl; Chang, Yuan; Chapman, Todd C.; Charles, Prince; Chastanet, Vidal; Chávez, Richard M.; Chumbow, Evelyn; Church, Patricia; Clark, James L.; Clarke, Natasha; Clifford, Carolyn; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, William J.; Clyburn, James E.; Cobert, Beth F.; Cohen, Abba; Cohen, David S.; Cohen, Mark; Collins, Paula Robinson; Colville, Robert J.; Comey, James B., Jr.; Conger, John; Connery, Joyce; Connolly, Gerald E.; Connors, Clare E.; Cook, Raymond; Copeland, Elizabeth Ann; Coppedge, Susan; Corcoran, Jim; Corker, Robert P.; Cormack, Maureen E.; Corrales, Carmen A.; Coscia, Anthony; Council, LaVerne Horton; Crenshaw, Waverly D., Jr.; Croff, Allen; Crowley, Joseph; Cullom, Philip; Cuomo, Andrew M.; Cuomo, Mario M.; Cushman, Chase; Dandekar, Swati A.; Dang, Minh; Darden, Scott; Darling, T.F. Scott, III; Daschle, Thomas A.; Dasgupta, Abhijit; Daughton, Thomas F.; Davidson, Janine; Davis, Glyn Townsend; Davis, R. Carey; Davis, Tiffany; Davutoglu, Ahmet; Dayan, Ilana; Dean, Nicholas; Deaton, Angus; DeBonis, Laura; Decker, Eileen M.; Deese, Brian C.; Deinhardt, Barbara; Delawie, Gregory T.; Delery, Stuart F.; Dell, Michael S.; DeSalvo, Karen; Dew, Mia; Dhanani, Katherine Simonds; Di Rosa, Paolo; Díaz-Balart, José; DiCarlo, Rosemary A.; Dickerson, Chad; Disbrow, Lisa S.; Dogu, Laura Farnsworth; Doherty, Kathleen A.; Dolan, Raymond; Dominguez, Kathryn M.; Dominquez, Marie T.; Donilon, Thomas E.; Donoghue, Joan; Donovan, Shaun L.S.; Drake, Elizabeth J.; d'Souza, Harold; Duncan, Arne; Duncan, John J., Jr.; Dunson, Edward D., Jr.; Durcan, D. Mark; Earnest, Joshua R.; Eberhard, Eric D.; Ebert-Gray, Catherine; Ebinger, Rebecca Goodgame; Edge, Marianne Smith; Edwards, Barbara-Lee; Eggers, Dave; Eggleston, W. Neil; Eisner, Jane; Ejeta, Gebisa; Ekanger, Holger; Ellis, Jill; Ellis, Larry R.; Emerson, John; Emerson, John B.; Emwazi, Mohammed; Engel, Eliot L.; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Erler, Rebekah; Escobari, Marcela; Eshoo, Anna G.; Esser, Victoria; Estenoz, Shannon A.; Etim, Linda; Eyring, Henry B.; Fabius, Laurent; Fairfax, Lisa M.; Fallon, Katie Beirne; Fanning, Eric K.; Farook, Syed Rizwan; Farran, Sam; Fassett, Gordon "Jeff"; Feinberg, Sarah; Felipe VI, King; Fields, Mark; Fishwick, John P., Jr.; Fitisemanu, Jacob J., Jr.; Flores, Mary Barzee; Ford, William C., Jr.; Fortuno, Joseph; Fowler, Cary; Foxx, Anthony R.; Francis, Pope; Franklin, Barbara B.; Freden, Bradley; Freeman, Frankie M.; Friedman, Thomas L.; Frundt, Tina; Fugate, Victor L., Jr.; Fugate, W. Craig; Furuta-Toy, Julie; Gallagher, Stephanie A.; Galt, Jennifer Zimdahl; Garcia, Juan M., III; Gauck, Joachim; Geingob, Hage; Gerety, Amias; Ghandour, Ibrahim Ahmad 'Abd al-Aziz; Ghani Ahmadzai, Ashraf; Ghani, Ashraf Ahmadzai; Giffords, Gabrielle D.; Gilmore, Edward L.; Gilmour, David R.; Glymph, Thavolia; Goforth, Darren; Goforth, Kathleen; Goldberg, Jeffrey; Goldman, Sam; Goldstein, Eric; Goodell, Jeff; Gorgas, Rachel; Gorman, David W.; Grabar-Kitzrovic, Kolinda; Graham, Lindsey O.; Graham, William H.; Green, GloZell; Green, Hank; Green, Steven; Greene, Marie; Griffis, Kevin; Groberg, Florent A.; Groves, Jennifer Choe; Grylls, Bear; Guest, Michael; Gupta, Sanjay; Guthrie, Savannah; Gutow, Steve; Haak, Delia; Hadley, Stephen J.; Hagel, Charles T.; Hahn, Janice; Hailemariam Desalegn; Haïm, Laurence; Haines, Avril D.; Hale, David; Haley, Nikki Randhawa; Hall, Carla; Halperin, Morton H.; Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, King; Hamilton, Bruce; Hamm, Mia; Hankins, Dennis B.; Hankinson, John H.; Harden, Krysta; Haro, Steven M.; Harper, Stephen J.; Harris, David; Hart, Christopher S.; Hartfield, Edward F.; Harvey, B. Steven; Harvick, Kevin; Hasan, Aziza; Hatalsky, Lanae Erickson; Hatch, Orrin G.; Haukdal, Eric R.; Hawkins, Jeffrey J., Jr.; Hedger, Stephen C.; Heidt, William A.; Heins, Samuel D.; Herbert, Gary R.; Herscowitz, Andrew M.; Hesser, Amanda; Heyman, Bruce; Hickey, Douglas T.; Hicks, Kathleen H.; Higginbottom, Heather A.; Hildago, Anne; Hill, David C.; Hill, G. Kathleen; Hirshberg, Gary; Hochstein, Amos J.; Hoffman, Lisa Funderburke; Hogan, Lawrence J., Jr.; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holdren, John P.; Holgate, Laura S.H.; Hollande, François; Holler, Zachary W.; Holt, Allan M.; Holt, Lester; Hood, Walter; Horan, Marilyn J.; Horowitz, Jake; Horwich, Julius L.; Howorth, Richard; Huber, John W.; Huebner, David; Huertas, Kenneth; Hughes, Douglas M.; Humala Tasso, Ollanta Moises; Ignatius, David; Inskeep, Steve; Jackson, Barry; Jackson, Robert P.; Jacobson, Roberta S.; Jammet, Nicolas; Jarrett, Valerie B.; Javitz, Joshua M.; Jefferson, Regina T.; Jeffrey, David; Jenkins, Ronny; Jeppson, Matthew Rhett; Johnson, Broderick; Johnson, Broderick D.; Johnson, Eric; Johnson, Henry; Johnson, Jeh C.; Johnson, Joyce M.; Johnson, M. Tia; Johnson, Marvin E.; Johnson, Robert; Jolly, Ronald E., Sr.; Jonathan, Goodluck; Jones, Cobi; Jones, Paul W.; Jordan, Vernon E., Jr.; Joyner, Thomas; Jubayr, Adil al-Ahmad al-; Julius, Rich; Kabila, Joseph; Kaboré, Roch Marc Christian; Kahl, Colin; Kan, Derek; Karp, Ethan; Karua, Martha; Kasasbeh, Moaz al-; Kass, Samuel; Katzmann, Gary S.; Kealy, Kerstin; Keenan, Cody S.; Keker, John W.; Kelley, Rebecca; Kelly, Ian C.; Kelly, Mark E.; Kelly, Scott J.; Kendall, Mary; Kenis, Ann; Kennedy, Caroline B.; Kennedy, Victoria Reggie; Kenny, Enda; Kenyatta, Uhuru; Kerr, Stephen D.; Kerry, John F.; Keshap, Atul; Kessler, Charlotte Power; Ketz, Kris; Khazzani, Ayoub El; Kieve, Loren; Kim Young-sam; Kimmel, Jimmy; King, John B., Subjects: ; "Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee"; "WTF With Marc Maron" podcast; 4–H; ABC : "Jimmy Kimmel Live" program; ABC : "This Week" program; Administrative Conference of the U.S., Council of; Administrative Conference of the U.S., Council of the; Afghanistan : Afghan military and security forces; Afghanistan : Chief Executive Officer; Afghanistan : Government officials, corruption issues; Afghanistan : Minister of Foreign Affairs; Afghanistan : NATO, role; Afghanistan : President; Afghanistan : Reconciliation efforts; Afghanistan : Reconstruction efforts; Afghanistan : Relations with Pakistan; Afghanistan : Relations with U.S.; Afghanistan : Security cooperation with U.S.; Afghanistan : U.S. airstrike on hospital in Kunduz; Africa : African Union :: African Union Commission Chairperson; Africa : African Union :: Commission Chairperson; Africa : West Africa, Ebola epidemic, response and containment efforts; African American and civil rights leaders, meeting with President; African Development Foundation; Afrisol Energy Ltd.; Agriculture, Department of : General Counsel; Agriculture, Department of : Rural Utilities Service; Agriculture, Department of : Secretary; Air Force, Department of the : Financial Management, Assistant Secretary for; Air Force, Department of the : Hill Air Force Base; Air Force, Department of the : Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Assistant Secretary for; Air Force, Department of the : Under Secretary; Alabama : President's visit; Alabama : President's visits; Alabama : Selma :: Edmund Pettus Bridge; Alabama : Selma :: National Voting Rights Museum and Institute; Alabama : Selma :: Selma to Montgomery, marches for voting rights, 50th anniversary commemoration; Al-Arabiya News Channel; Alaska : Anchorage :: Hotel Captain Cook; Alaska : Anchorage :: Snow City Cafe; Alaska : Dillingham :: Dillinham Middle/High School; Alaska : Dillingham :: Kanakanak Beach; Alaska : Dillingham :: N&N Market; Alaska : Disaster assistance; Alaska : Environmental concerns; Alaska : Governor; Alaska : Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson; Alaska : Kotzebue :: Shore Avenue Erosion Project; Alaska : Kotzebue Middle High School in Kotzebue; Alaska : President's visit; Alaska : Resurrection Bay; Alaska : Seward : Sweet Darlings shop; Alaska : Seward :: Kenai Fjords National Park; Alaska : Seward :: Kenai Fjords National Park ; Alfalfa Club; American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development, Institute of; American Indian and Alaska Natives : Oglala Sioux Tribe, disaster assistance; American Indians and Alaska Natives : Choctaw, Cherokee, Muscogee (Creek), and Chickasaw Nations youth, meeting with President; American Indians and Alaska Natives : White House Tribal Youth Gathering; American Indians and Alaska Natives : White House Tribal Nations Conference; America's Heritage Abroad, Commission for the Preservation of; Antigua and Barbuda, U.S. Ambassador; Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board; Arctic Research Commission; Argentina : President-elect; Argentina : Relations with U.S.; Arizona : 2011 shootings in Tucson; Arizona : Cart T. Hayden Veterans Administration Medical Center in Phoenix; Arizona : Central High School in Phoenix; Arizona : Nueva Villas at Beverly housing development in Phoenix; Arizona : Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak Resort in Phoenix; Arizona : President's visit; Arkansas : Disaster assistance; Arkansas-Oklahoma Arkansas River Compact Commission; Armed Forces : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Armed Forces, U.S. : Military families; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Casualties; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armed Forces, U.S. : Servicemembers :: Service and dedication; Armed Forces, U.S.: Servicemembers :: Meetings with President; Armenia : Centennial Commemoration of the Events of 1915; Arms and munitions : Nuclear weapons and material :: Nonproliferation efforts; Army, Department of the : Military Academy, U.S.; Army, Department of the : Secretary; Army, Department of the : Under Secretary; Army, National Commission on the Future of the; Artic Research Commission; Arts : "Hamilton" musical, President's attendance in New York City; Arts : "Selma," White House screening; Arts : "Star Wars," White House screening; Arts and the Humanities, President's Committee on the; Arts, National Council on the; Asia : Asian Nations, Association of Southeast (ASEAN); Asia : East Asia Summit; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, President’s Advisory Commission on; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, President's Commission on; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation; Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC); Atlantic magazine; Atlantic Tunas, International Commission for the Conservation of; Atomic Energy Agency, International (IAEA); Australia : Prime Minister; Australia : Prime Minister-elect; Australia : Relations with U.S.; Bahrain : King; Barbados, Prime Minister; Barbados, U.S. Ambassador; BBC Television; Benin, U.S. Ambassador; Bolivia : President; Border Environment Cooperation Commission; Bosnia and Herzegovina, Srebrenica genocide, 20th anniversary; Boy Scouts of America; Boys and Girls Clubs of America; Brazil : Minister of the Environment; Brazil : President; Brownfield Ag News Radio; Budget, Federal : Appropriations :: Consolidated; Bulgaria, U.S. Ambassador; Burkina Faso, President-elect; Burma : Democracy efforts; Burma : President; Burma, U.S. Ambassador; Burundi : Political unrest and violence; Business and industry : Entrepreneurship :: Promotion efforts; Business and industry : Small businesses :: Promotion efforts; BuzzFeed News; California : 2015 Olympics World Games in Los Angeles; California : Democratic Party events; California : Disaster assistance; California : Drought and wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; California : Esperanza Azteca Youth Orchestra of Los Angeles; California : Fairmont San Francisco hotel in San Francisco; California : Governor; California : InterContinental Los Angeles Century City hotel in Los Angeles; California : KCRA in Sacramento; California : KFMB in San Diego; California : Los Angeles schools, December 15 closure due to bomb threat; California : President's visit; California : President's visits; California : Rancho Valencia Resort & Spa in Rancho Santa Fe; California : San Bernardino : Terrorist attack; California : San Bernardino :: Indian Springs High School; California : Stanford University in Stanford; California : Terrorist attack in San Bernardino; California : Terrorist attacks in San Bernardino; California : U.S. Senator, retirement; California : Wildfires, damage and recovery efforts; Cambodia, U.S. Ambassador; Canada : 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup; Canada : Prime Minister; Canada : Prime Minister-designate; Canada : Relations with U.S.; Cancer Advisory Board, National; Cancer Panel, President's; Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, President's Commission; CBS : "60 Minutes" program; CBS : "Late Show With David Letterman" program; CBS : CBS News; Central African Republic, U.S. Ambassador; Central Intelligence Agency; Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board; Chile : Earthquake, damage and recovery efforts; Chile : Economic relations with U.S.; Chile : Our Ocean Conference; Chile : President; China : Carbon emissions, reduction efforts; China : President; China : Relations with U.S.; China : State 