Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Checklist of White House Press Releases December 31, 2015 The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements. January 2 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Executive order imposing additional sanctions on North Korea January 3 Transcript of a weekly address by Vice President Joe Biden (dated January 2; embargoed until January 3) January 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest January 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with President of General Intelligence Prince Khalid bin Bandar bin Abdalaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia Fact sheet: U.S.-Mexico High Level Economic Dialogue January 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Making Homeownership More Accessible and Sustainable January 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. Olympic Committee's nomination of Boston to bid as host of the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games January 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in December Fact sheet: White House Unveils America's College Promise Proposal: Tuition-Free Community College for Responsible Students Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Manufacturing Innovation Hub in Knoxville, Tennessee January 11 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the White House will host a summit on countering violent extremism on February 18 January 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 26 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with France's Ambassador to the U.S. Gerard Araud Fact sheet: Safeguarding American Consumers & Families: President Obama Announces New Privacy Protections for the Digital Age January 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Securing Cyberspace: President Obama Announces New Cybersecurity Legislative Proposal and Other Cybersecurity Efforts Text of a readout of the President's meeting with congressional leaders Text of a National Economic Council and Council of Economic Advisers report: Community-Based Broadband Solutions: The Benefits of Competition and Choice for Community Development and High-Speed Internet Access Fact sheet: Broadband That Works: Promoting Competition & Local Choice in Next-Generation Connectivity January 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: White House Unveils New Steps To Strengthen Working Families Across America January 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the publication of changes to U.S. regulatory policy toward Cuba by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Commerce January 16 Text of a Department of the Treasury and Department of Transportation report: Recommendations of the Build America Investment Initiative Interagency Working Group Fact sheet: Increasing Investment in U.S. Roads, Ports, and Drinking Water Systems Through Innovative Financing Fact sheet: U.S.-United Kingdom Cybersecurity Cooperation January 17 Fact sheet: A Simpler, Fairer Tax Code That Responsibly Invests in Middle Class Families January 19 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Guests in First Lady's Box—State of the Union Address January 20 Fact sheet: Middle Class Economics for the 21st Century—Helping Working Families Get Ahead Excerpts of the President's State of the Union Address Advance text of the President's State of the Union Address January 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: The Federal Resources Playbook for Registered Apprenticeship (released by the Department of Labor) Fact sheet: Partnering With Employers To Equip Hardworking Americans With the Skills They Need To Advance Into Better-Paying Jobs January 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Economics of Early Childhood Investments Fact sheet: Helping All Working Families With Young Children Afford Child Care January 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama Hosts Over 200 Mayors From Across the Country at the White House January 25 Fact sheet: U.S. and India Climate and Clean Energy Cooperation January 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Counselor to the President John D. Podesta, and MasterCard Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer Ajay Banga Statement by the Press Secretary on the parliamentary elections in Greece Statement by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz on the Congressional Budget Office report on the Federal budget and the national economy Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's travel to Afghanistan Fact sheet: Fostering a Cleaner and More Sustainable Energy Future in the Caribbean January 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Fact sheet: President’s 2016 Budget Proposes Historic Investment To Combat Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria To Protect Public Health January 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of the Interior Bernard Cazeneuve of France January 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the White House Forum on Combating Human Trafficking in Supply Chains Fact sheet: Promoting Prosperity, Security, and Good Governance in Central America January 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2014 Fact sheet: President Obama's Precision Medicine Initiative February 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun L.S. Donovan, Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman, Domestic Policy Council Director Cecilia Muñoz, and National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients on the President's fiscal year 2016 budget February 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco: Update on Implementation of Signals Intelligence Reform and Issuance of PPD–28 February 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest February 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of an Office of National Drug Control Policy fact sheet: Administration Proposes Critical Investments To Tackle Prescription Drug Abuse, Heroin Use, and Overdose Deaths February 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in January Text of the 2015 National Security Strategy Fact sheet: The 2015 National Security Strategy Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the 2015 National Security Strategy at the Brookings Institution February 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the conviction of Malaysian opposition leader Dato' Seri Anwar Ibrahim Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Initiative To Scale Up Investment in Clean Energy Innovation February 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a proposed joint resolution submitted to Congress by the President: To authorize the limited use of the United States Armed Forces against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant Fact sheet: Progress in Our Ebola Response at Home and Abroad February 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary on the situation in Ukraine Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 203 February 13 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Investing in Our Future: Helping Teachers and Schools Prepare Our Children for College and Careers Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the recent terrorist attacks in West Africa White House report: Investing in Our Future: Helping Teachers and Schools Prepare Our Children for College and Careers Text of a Department of Commerce and Department of Homeland Security report: Supporting Travel and Tourism To Grow Our Economy and Create More Jobs Fact sheet: White House Summit on Cybersecurity and Consumer Protection Fact sheet: Executive Order Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing Fact sheet: Supporting Travel and Tourism To Grow Our Economy by Improving the Arrivals Experience for International Travelers to the U.S. February 14 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen, Denmark February 15 Statement by the Press Secretary on the killing of Egyptian citizens in Libya by terrorists affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Fact sheet: Promoting Economic Competitiveness While Safeguarding Privacy, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties in Domestic Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems February 16 Transcript of a background teleconference call by senior administration officials previewing the White House Summit on Countering Violent Extremism February 17 Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. District Court opinion in Texas, et al. v. United States February 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: The White House Summit on Countering Violent Extremism February 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of the Interior Bernard Cazeneuve of France Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Lidegaard of Denmark Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Sameh Hassan Shoukry of Egypt Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Security Adviser Yossi Cohen of Israel Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman: 2015 Economic Report of the President Fact sheet: Launching the Every Kid in a Park Initiative and Designating New National Monuments February 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the West Coast ports labor agreement Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Mohamed Elahadi Dayri of Libya Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with United Nations Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar of India Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Interior and Narcotics Control Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan of Pakistan February 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Effects of Conflicted Investment Advice on Retirement Savings Fact sheet: Middle Class Economics: Strengthening Retirement Security by Cracking Down on Backdoor Payments and Hidden Fees February 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest February 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice’s meeting with State Councilor Yang Jiechi of China Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on recent attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Fact sheet: Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center February 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's video teleconference with National Security Adviser Kim Darroch of the United Kingdom, National Security Adviser Jacques Audibert of France, National Security Adviser Christoph Heusgen of Germany, and National Security Adviser Armando Varricchio of Italy Fact sheet: White House Highlights Record U.S. Exports, Announces New Actions To Help More Rural Businesses Export February 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on reauthorization of the collection of bulk telephony metadata under section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 33 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2014 March 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Advance text of remarks by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice at the America Israel Public Affairs Committee Policy Conference March 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama Announce New Whole of Government Initiative, Let Girls Learn Fact sheet: Support for the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle March 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 240 March 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: My Brother's Keeper Task Force: One-Year Progress Report to the President White House report: My Brother's Keeper Task Force: One-Year Progress Report to the President March 6 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in February Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the Special Assistant to the President and White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region March 7 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 431 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the death of Sgt. Andrew J. Doiron of the Canadian Armed Forces Advance text of the President's remarks commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery marches for voting rights in Selma, AL March 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background conference call by senior administration officials on the President's Executive order on Venezuela Statement by the Press Secretary on the President's Executive order on Venezuela Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with Assyrian Christian Bishops Fact sheet: President Obama Launches New TechHire Initiative Fact sheet: Venezuela Executive Order March 10 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Fact sheet: A Student Aid Bill of Rights: Taking Action To Ensure Strong Consumer Protections for Student Loan Borrowers March 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on approval of a new International Monetary Fund program for Ukraine March 12 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany Text of a Department of Energy report: Wind Vision: A New Era for Wind Power in the United States Fact sheet: Wind Vision Report Highlights Long Term Benefits of Investing in America's Wind Energy Industry March 13 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz March 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest March 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Secretary General of the National Security Secretariat Shotaro Yachi of Japan Fact sheet: House Republican Budget Resolution: Same Failed Top-Down Economics March 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack at the National Bardo Museum in Tunisia White House and Department of Commerce report: Supply Chain Innovation: Strengthening America's Small Manufacturers Fact sheet: President Obama Launches Competition for New Textiles-Focused Manufacturing Innovation Institute; New White House Supply Chain Innovation Initiative; and Funding To Support Small Manufacturers March 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Senior Adviser to the President Brian C. Deese Fact sheet: Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Federal Government and Across the Supply Chain March 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Announces New "Call to Arts" Initiative as Part of his National Call to Service Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1213 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the situation in Yemen March 22 Statement by the Press Secretary: Key Facts and Reports: The Fifth Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act White House report: Accomplishments of the Affordable Care Act: A 5th Year Anniversary Report (dated March 23) Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: The Affordable Care Act at Five: Progress on Coverage, Costs, and Quality March 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama Announces Over $240 Million in New STEM Commitments at the 2015 White House Science Fair Fact sheet: New Details: President Obama Hosts 5th White House Science Fair Fact sheet: Next Steps in Delivering Fast, Affordable Broadband Fact sheet: President Obama To Announce New Steps To Attract Foreign Investors and Create Jobs Through the Continued Expansion of the SelectUSA Initiative Advance text of remarks by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough at the J Street National Conference March 24 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with former President Moaz al-Khatib of the Syrian Opposition Coalition Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of the Interior Nuhad al-Mashnuq of Lebanon March 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of budget legislation Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Defense Aliyu Mohammed Gusau of Nigeria Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the situation in Yemen March 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Fact sheet: Progress Toward Building a Safer, Stronger Financial System and Protecting Consumers From Unfair and Abusive Practices March 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentors Statement by the Press Secretary on Senate passage of budget legislation Statement by the Press Secretary on Mexico's carbon emissions policy announcement Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2014 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Philip Hammond of the United Kingdom White House report: National Action Plan for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria Fact sheet: Obama Administration Releases National Action Plan To Combat Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria March 30 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that Kenya will cohost the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in July March 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Commutations Text of the U.S. Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) submission to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change Fact sheet: U.S. Reports Its 2025 Emissions Target to the UNFCCC April 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Special Assistant to the President and Cybersecurity Coordinator Michael Daniel and Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control Acting Director John E. Smith on the Executive order on malicious cyber-enabled activities Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1527 Fact sheet: Executive Order Blocking the Property of Certain Persons Engaging in Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities April 2 Transcript of a background press call by senior administration officials on the framework agreement regarding Iran's nuclear program Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attack at Garissa University College in Garissa, Kenya Text: Parameters for a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action Regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran's Nuclear Program Fact sheet: Training Americans for Better Jobs and Higher Wages To Grow the Economy April 3 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in March Fact sheet: Administration Announces Actions To Drive Growth in Solar Energy and Train Workers for Clean-Energy Jobs April 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Secretary of Energy Ernest J. Moniz April 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Ricardo Zuñiga on the President's travel to Jamaica and Panama Statement by the Press Secretary on proposed legislation to replace the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 Fact sheet: Administration Announces Actions To Protect Communities From the Impacts of Climate Change April 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest April 9 Fact sheet: U.S.-CARICOM Summit—Deepening Energy Cooperation Fact sheet: The President's Young Leaders of the Americas Initiative and Programs To Support Youth Development in Central America and the Caribbean April 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the situation in the Yarmouk refugee camp in Syria Fact sheet: U.S. Cooperation With Central America; Meeting With Members of the Central America Integration System (SICA) April 11 Statement by the Press Secretary on the conviction and sentencing of U.S. citizen Mohamed Soltan in Egypt Fact sheet: U.S. Participation in the 7th Summit of the Americas April 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest April 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the proposed rescission of Cuba's designation as a state sponsor of terrorism Text of a Department of Labor blog post by Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez and National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients: Today's Important Step To Strengthen Retirement Security Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma of the African Union Fact sheet: U.S.-Iraq Cooperation April 15 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with representatives of the Iraqi Christian community April 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Prime Minister Karim Masimov of Kazakhstan April 19 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the purported killing of Ethiopian Christians in Libya by terrorists affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization April 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest April 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with Armenian American leaders Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevlut Cavusoglu of Turkey April 22 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the decision by Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners to conclude Operation Decisive Storm in Yemen Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikolaos Kotzias of Greece Fact sheet: Celebrating Earth Day With New Steps To Protect People, Places, and Local Economies From Climate Change April 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the deaths of Warren Weinstein and Giovanni Lo Porto Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees António Guterres April 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economics Caroline Atkinson, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Evan S. Medeiros on the upcoming state visit of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan White House report: President Obama's Upskill Initiative Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with former Prime Minister Sa'ad al-Din al-Hariri of Lebanon Fact sheet: Administration Announces New Commitments in Support of President Obama's Upskill Initiative To Empower Workers with Education and Training April 25 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the earthquake in Nepal April 27 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan regarding the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia April 28 Fact sheet: U.S.-Japan Cooperation for a More Prosperous and Stable World Fact sheet: New Promise Zones Building Stronger Ladders of Opportunity (released by the Department of Housing and Urban Development) April 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2015 April 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 535 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the nomination of Gayle E. Smith to be Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development Fact sheet: Spreading the Joy of Reading to More Children and Young Adults May 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest May 2 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with U.N. Special Envoy for Yemen Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed May 4 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with Speaker of the Lower House of Parliament Thura Shwe Mann of Burma May 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on congressional passage of a budget resolution for fiscal year 2016 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni of Uganda May 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest May 7 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: Making College Affordable for Millions of Americans Statement by the Press Secretary on the formation of Israel's new Government White House report: Making College More Affordable for Millions of Americans May 8 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in April May 9 Statement by the Press Secretary on the World Health Organization's declaration of the end of the Ebola outbreak in Liberia May 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Security Adviser to the Vice President Colin H. Kahl, and National Security Council Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Robert Malley previewing the President's meetings with Gulf Cooperation Council representatives at Camp David, MD Fact sheet: The United States' Investment in Emerging Global Entrepreneurs May 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the resumption of Cyprus settlement talks Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on U.S. journalist Austin B. Tice's 1,000th day in captivity in Syria Fact sheet: The White House Summit on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders May 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes on the President's meetings with Gulf Cooperation Council representatives at Camp David, MD May 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Text of a White House blog post by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest: The President and Vice President's 2014 Financial Disclosure Forms Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's meeting with ASEAN officials Fact sheet: The President's Global Development Council's Second Report May 16 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on the U.S. counterterrorism operation in Syria against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender rights Fact sheet: Promoting and Protecting the Human Rights of LGBT Persons: A United States Government Priority May 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Text: Final Report of the President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing (released by the Department of Justice) Text of a White House blog post by U.S. Chief Technology Officer Megan Smith and Deputy Assistant to the President for Urban Affairs, Justice, and Opportunity Roy L. Austin, Jr.: Launching the Police Data Initiative Text of a Law Enforcement Equipment Working Group report: Recommendations Pursuant to Executive Order 13688: Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment Acquisition Fact sheet: Creating Opportunity for All Through Stronger, Safer Communities May 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 665 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2252 May 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: The National Security Implications of a Changing Climate White House report: Findings From Select Federal Reports: The National Security Implications of a Changing Climate May 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Enduring U.S.-Tunisian Relations May 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 606, H.R. 651, H.R. 1075, H.R. 1191, S. 1124 May 23 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2496 May 25 Statement by the Press Secretary on the Presidential election in Poland May 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest May 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz May 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary announcing the White House Conference on Aging May 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1690, H.R. 2353, and S. 178 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2015 May 31 Statement by the Press Secretary on congressional passage of the USA FREEDOM Act June 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact Sheet: The President's Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative June 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2048 Fact sheet: Over 150 Animal and Health Stakeholders Join White House Effort To Combat Antibiotic Resistance June 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic of Serbia June 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economics Caroline M. Atkinson, and Senior Director for European Affairs Charles A. Kupchan on the President's travel to Germany for the G–7 summit Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman and Senior Economist Matthew A. Fiedler: New Data and Updated Report Show Medicaid Is Expanding Insurance Coverage, With Major Benefits to States' Citizens and Economies Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: Missed Opportunities: The Consequences of State Decisions Not To Expand Medicaid June 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in May June 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest on the G–7 summit June 8 Fact sheet: The 2015 G–7 Summit at Schloss Elmau, Germany June 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: The President's Speech to the Catholic Health Association on Health Care in America Statement by the Press Secretary on the Supreme Court's decision in Zivotofsky v. Kerry Fact sheet: Health Care Reform, a Reality for America: What the Affordable Care Act Is Doing for American Families Fact sheet: Launching a Public-Private Partnership To Empower Climate-Resilient Developing Nations June 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Security Council Senior Director for Iran, Iraq, Syria, and the Gulf States Jeff Prescott, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs Elissa Slotkin, and Deputy Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL Brett H. McGurk Statement by the Press Secretary on U.S. strategy to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Fact sheet: Administration Announces Actions To Bring Jobs and Clean Energy to Rural America June 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing the 2015–2016 National Finalists for the White House Fellows program Fact sheet: The White House and Small Business Administration Launch Startup in a Day Initiative and Prize Competition June 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 802 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Ned Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Central Military Commission Vice Chairman General Fan Changlong of China Fact sheet: New Commitments in Support of the President's Nation of Makers Initiative Fact sheet: Supporting Workers, Farmers, and Communities Suffering From Drought Fact sheet: U.S. Government Efforts To Address Bias-Motivated Violence Against the LGBT Community Around the World June 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1568 June 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Yun Byung-se of South Korea Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the death of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula leader Nasser al-Wuhayshi Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs K. Shanmugam of Singapore Text of an Office of Management and Budget report: Government-Wide Funding for Clean Energy Technology Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces More Than $4 Billion in Private Sector Commitments and Executive Actions To Scale Up Investment in Clean Energy Innovation June 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest June 18 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz June 19 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz June 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: Obama Administration Releases Report on the Health and Economic Benefits of Global Action on Climate Change Statement by the Press Secretary: Expected Attendees at the White House Iftar Dinner Text of an Environmental Protection Agency Report: Climate Change in the United States: Benefits of Global Action June 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Actions To Protect Communities From the Health Impacts of Climate Change at White House Summit June 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the introduction in Congress of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the first quarter of 2015 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with State Councilor Yang Jiechi of China White House report: Report on U.S. Hostage Policy Fact sheet: U.S. Government Hostage Policy June 25 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Mark Feierstein on the upcoming visit of President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc. Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with U.N. Special Envoy for Yemen Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed Fact sheet: ConnectED: Two Years of Delivering Opportunity to K–12 Schools & Libraries Fact sheet: The Supreme Court Upholds Critical Part of the Affordable Care Act: What You Need To Know About the Affordable Care Act June 26 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary on the terrorist attacks in France, Kuwait, and Tunisia June 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2146 and H.R. 1295 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the death of Prosecutor-General Hisham Barakat of Egypt in a terrorist attack in Cairo, Egypt June 30 Statement by Senior Adviser to the President Brian C. Deese on China's Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) submission to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar of India Fact sheet: Middle Class Economics Rewarding Hard Work by Restoring Overtime Pay Fact sheet: State-by-State Breakdowns of Workers Affected by Department of Labor's Proposed Overtime Regulation Fact sheet: The United States and Brazil—A Mature and Multi-Faceted Partnership Fact sheet: The Export-Import Bank: Supporting American Exports and American Workers in Every State Across the Country July 1 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Honors Outstanding Mathematics and Science Teachers Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attacks in Egypt July 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by Council of Economic Advisers member Betsey A. Stevenson on the employment situation in June July 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 533, H.R. 615, and H.R. 893 White House report: Giving Every Child a Fair Shot July 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Administration Announces New Initiative To Increase Solar Access for All Americans July 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: Precision Medicine Initiative: Proposed Privacy and Trust Principles Fact sheet: New Patient-Focused Commitments To Advance the President's Precision Medicine Initiative Fact sheet: White House Tribal Youth Gathering (embargoed until July 9) July 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on South Sudan Independence Day Fact sheet: Convening Manufacturing Leaders To Strengthen the Innovative Capabilities of the U.S. Supply Chain, Including Small Manufacturers Fact sheet: Administration Cybersecurity Efforts 2015 July 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama Designates New National Monuments July 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Commutations July 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a background conference call by senior administration officials on the multilateral agreement to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon Text: Key Excerpts of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) Fact sheet: Enhancing the Fairness and Effectiveness of the Criminal Justice System July 15 Text of a Council of Economic Advisers issue brief: Mapping the Digital Divide Fact sheet: ConnectHome: Coming Together To Ensure Digital Opportunity for All Americans Fact sheet: Financing for Development—U.S. Government Development Priorities July 16 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz July 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by National Security Council Senior Director Grant T. Harris to preview the upcoming visit of President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria July 18 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Diyala Province, Iraq July 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Havana, Cuba, and the opening of the Cuban Embassy in Washington, DC Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 91, H.R. 728, H.R. 891, H.R. 1326, H.R. 1350, H.R. 2620, and S. 179 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Suruç, Turkey Fact sheet: Celebrating the 25th Anniversary of the ADA July 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama Announces Final Rules To Better Protect Service Members From Financial Abuse on Fifth Anniversary of Signing Wall Street Reform Into Law July 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest July 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest July 24 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the death of Djibouti's Ambassador to the U.S. Roble Olhaye Oudine July 25 Fact sheet: U.S. Investment in Entrepreneurship Fact sheet: Power Africa July 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Transcript of a background press briefing by senior administration officials Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Mogadishu, Somalia Fact sheet: Deepening the U.S.-Africa Trade Relationship Fact sheet: Advancing Democracy, Human Rights, Gender Equality, Wildlife Conservation, and Governance in Africa July 27 Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Peace, Security, and Countering Violent Extremism in Africa Fact sheet: White House Launches American Business Act on Climate Pledge July 28 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2499 Text of a White House blog post by National Economic Council Director Jeffrey D. Zients and Council of Economic Advisers member Betsey A. Stevenson: Trends in Occupational Licensing and Best Practices for Smart Labor Market Regulation Text of a report by the Department of the Treasury Office of Economic Policy, the Council of Economic Advisers, and the Department of Labor: Occupational Licensing: A Framework for Policymakers Fact sheet: Partnering With Africa on Food Security and Climate Change Adaptation Fact sheet: The Global Health Security Agenda July 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz July 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 971 and S. 984 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2015 Text: The National HIV/AIDS Strategy for the United States: Updated to 2020 Fact sheet: The National HIV/AIDS Strategy: Updated to 2020 July 31 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Secretary of Energy Ernest J. Moniz Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar of Afghanistan Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3236 August 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: President Obama To Announce Historic Carbon Pollution Standards for Power Plants August 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: New Details: President Obama Hosts First-Ever White House Demo Day Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Director General Yukiya Amano of the International Atomic Energy Agency Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Commitments From Investors, Companies, Universities, and Cities To Advance Inclusive Entrepreneurship at First-Ever White House Demo Day August 5 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the nomination of Laura S.H. Holgate to be Ambassador and U.S. Representative to the Vienna Office of the U.N. and the International Atomic Energy Agency Text: Best Practices for Business Schools To Lead in Expanding Opportunities for Women in Business and To Adapt to the 21st-Century Workforce Text of a Council of Economic Advisers issue brief: Expanding Opportunities for Women in Business Fact sheet: White House Hosts Convening of Business School Deans and the Business Community on Expanding Opportunities for Women in Business August 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 876, H.R. 1626, and S. 1482 August 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1138 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 212, H.R. 1531, H.R. 2131, and H.R. 2559 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in July August 8 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attacks in Mali and Saudi Arabia Text of a readout of calls between National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice and President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai of Afghanistan and Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco and National Security Adviser Mohammad Hanif Atmar of Afghanistan August 10 Statement by the Press Secretary on the 2016 Nuclear Security Summit August 12 Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Summit on Worker Voice Text of a blog post by Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez: Stronger Together: Your Voice in the Workplace Matters (released by the Department of Labor) August 13 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the explosions in Tianjin, China August 14 Statement by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz on the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruling in Joseph M. Arpaio v. Barack Obama, et al. Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan's statement on the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Deputy National Security Adviser Arvind Gupta of India August 17 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on airstrikes conducted by Syrian Government forces in Douma, Syria Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the bombing in Bangkok, Thailand Text of an Office of National Drug Control Policy press release: White House Drug Policy Office Funds New Projects in High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Fact sheet: President Obama Signs Executive Order Making Presidential Innovation Fellows Program Permanent August 18 Statement by the National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the peace agreement in South Sudan August 19 Fact sheet: President Obama To Commemorate 10th Anniversary of Hurricane Katrina August 21 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the death of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terrorist organization deputy leader Fadhil Ahmad al-Hayali August 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Appoints 2015–2016 Class of White House Fellows Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the U.N. Security Council's discussion of the protection of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender persons targeted by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization Text: Accelerating the Transition to Clean Energy Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Actions To Bring Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency to Households Across the Country August 25 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's travel to China August 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the International Atomic Energy Agency's Low Enriched Uranium Bank Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the South Sudan peace agreement August 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2015 August 28 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces New Flexible Hybrid Electronics Manufacturing Innovation Hub in San Jose, CA August 29 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meetings in Beijing, China August 30 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's travel to Islamabad, Pakistan Fact sheet: President Obama To Announce New Steps To Enhance Administration Collaboration With Alaska Natives, the State of Alaska, and Local Communities August 31 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest September 1 Statement by the Press Secretary on Alaska's expansion of Medicaid under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the Ukrainian Parliament’s vote on amendments on decentralization Fact sheet: The "It’s On Us" Campaign Launches New PSA, Marks One Year Since Launch of "It's On Us" Campaign To End Campus Sexual Assault Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Investments To Enhance Safety and Security in the Changing Arctic September 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a press call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for the Middle East Jeffrey Prescott on the upcoming visit of King Salman bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia Text: Climate Resilience in Alaskan Communities: Catalog of Federal Programs (released by the Coastal Erosion Working Group of the Arctic Executive Steering Committee) Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Investments To Combat Climate Change and Assist Remote Alaskan Communities September 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest September 4 Statement by the Press Secretary on Senior Adviser to the President Brian C. Deese's travel to New Delhi, India, and Beijing, China Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in August September 7 Fact sheet: Helping Middle-Class Families Get Ahead by Expanding Paid Sick Leave September 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a White House and Department of Labor report: Progress Update on Job Driven Training and Apprenticeships Fact sheet: The Equal Futures Partnership—Progress To Expand Women's Economic and Political Participation and Enhance Information Sharing and Lessons Learned September 9 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Fact sheet: Providing More Americans With Affordable Access to Education and Job Training Opportunities To Help Grow the Middle Class September 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price announcing that the USNS Comfort will visit Haiti on September 10 for a tour of the ship by Cuba's Ambassador to Haiti and Cuban medical workers September 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the conviction and sentencing of Leopoldo López in Venezuela September 12 Text of a White House Council of Economic Advisers report: Using Federal Data To Measure and Improve the Performance of U.S. Institutions of Higher Education Text of a Department of Education report: Better Information for Better College Choice and Institutional Performance Text of a readout of senior administration officials' meeting with Communist Party Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission Secretary Meng Jianzhu of China Fact sheet: Empowering Students To Choose the College That Is Right for Them September 13 Fact sheet: The President's Plan for Early Financial Aid: Improving College Choice and Helping More Americans Pay for College September 14 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program working document: Smart Cities and Connected Communities Framework (dated September 21) Text of a memorandum for the heads of executive departments and agencies from Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun L.S. Donavan and Office of Science and Technology Policy Director John P. Holdren on multiagency science and technology priorities for the fiscal year 2017 budget (dated July 9) Text of a letter from university presidents and mayors to President Obama on the creation of a MetroLab Network to improve city infrastructure and services Fact sheet: Administration Announces New "Smart Cities" Initiative To Help Communities Tackle Local Challenges and Improve City Services September 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: U.S.-China Climate Leaders' Declaration Text of a National Science and Technology Council report: Social and Behavioral Sciences Team Annual Report Fact sheet: U.S.-China Climate Leaders Summit Fact sheet: President Obama Signs Executive Order; White House Announces New Steps To Improve Federal Programs by Leveraging Research Insights September 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on additional U.S. humanitarian aid for Yemen Text of a White House blog post by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman, Member Sandra E. Black, and Chief Economist Matthew A. Fiedler: Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance in the United States in 2014 Fact sheet: Continuing To Drive Growth in Solar Energy Across the Country September 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of a teleconference press briefing by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Security Council Senior Director for European Affairs Charles A. Kupchan, and White House Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships Executive Director Melissa Rogers previewing the visit of Pope Francis Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the situation in Burkina Faso Text: Building Welcoming Communities Campaign (released by the White House Task Force on new Americans) Fact sheet: "Stand Stronger" Citizenship Awareness Campaign September 18 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Department of the Treasury press release: Treasury and Commerce Announce Further Amendments to the Cuba Sanctions Regulations September 20 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the release of two U.S. citizens detained in Yemen September 21 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Department of State fact sheet: New U.S. Humanitarian Assistance To Respond to Syria Crisis September 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economics Caroline M. Atkinson, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Daniel J. Kritenbrink to preview the visit of President Xi Jinping of China Text of a readout of National Security Advisor Susan E. Rice's meeting with civil society leaders on China's draft law regulating foreign nongovernmental organizations September 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Advancing Shared Values for a Better World Advance text of the President's remarks at a welcoming ceremony for Pope Francis September 24 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of press call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Security Council Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs Stephen E. Pomper, and National Security Council Senior Director for Russia Celeste A. Wallander on the U.N. General Assembly Statement by the Press Secretary on the Colombia peace process Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 720 and S. 1359 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the stampede in Mina, Saudi Arabia Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on U.S. support for nations combating the Boko Haram terrorist organization September 25 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2015 Text: Memorandum of Understanding on U.S.-China Development Cooperation and the Establishment of an Exchange and Communication Mechanism Between the United States Agency for International Development and the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China (released by the U.S. Agency for International Development) Fact sheet: President Xi Jinping's State Visit to the United States Fact sheet: The United States and China Issue Joint Presidential Statement on Climate Change With New Domestic Policy Commitments and a Common Vision for an Ambitious Global Climate Agreement in Paris Fact sheet: U.S.-China Economic Relations September 26 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on new President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief targets Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the situation in Burkina Faso September 27 Fact sheet: Sustainable Development Summit Fact sheet: Promoting Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment Fact sheet: U.S. Global Development Policy and Agenda 2030 Fact sheet: 2015 United Nations General Assembly (released by the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief) September 28 Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Feridun Hadi Sinirlioglu  of Turkey Fact sheet: U.S. Support to Peace Operations 2015 Leaders' Summit on U.N. Peacekeeping September 29 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a readout of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco's meeting with Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah of Afghanistan Fact sheet: Leaders' Summit To Counter ISIL and Violent Extremism Fact sheet: U.S. Support for Civil Society September 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on congressional passage of H.R. 719 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 23, H.R. 719, H.R. 2051, H.R. 3614, S. 230, S. 501, and S. 2082 October 1 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 2 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in September Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on reports of civilian deaths in Mokha, Yemen, on September 28 October 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Preserving and Protecting Oceans and America's Waterways for Future Generations Fact sheet: How the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Boosts Made in America Exports, Supports Higher-Paying American Jobs, and Protects American Workers October 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Bystander: "Stop the Bleed"—Broad Private Sector Support for Effort To Save Lives and Build Resilience October 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1020, H.R. 1624, H.R. 2617, S. 136, S. 139, S. 261, S. 565, S. 994, and S. 1707 Fact sheet: Administration Celebrates Five-Year Anniversary of Challenge.gov With Launch of More Than 20 New Public- and Private-Sector Prizes October 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a U.S. Trade Representative press release: New USTR Report: "18,000 Tax Cuts on Made-in-America Exports" October 9 Transcript of a press call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Christine E. Wormuth, and Deputy Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition To Counter ISIL Brett H. McGurk on the campaign to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist organization October 10 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey October 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the Dutch Safety Board report on the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 October 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes's travel to Laos and Burma October 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record conference call by senior administration officials on Afghanistan Fact sheet: 25 Years of Hispanics Fulfilling America's Future Fact sheet: Administration Announces New Workforce and Economic Revitalization Resources for Communities Through POWER Initiative Fact sheet: Obama Administration and Private-Sector Leaders Announce Ambitious Commitments and Robust Progress To Address Potent Greenhouse Gases October 16 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2835, S. 986, S. 1300, and S. 2078 Joint fact sheet: The United States-Republic of Korea Alliance: Shared Values, New Frontiers October 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: White House Announces Commitments to the American Business Act on Climate Pledge Fact sheet: At White House Astronomy Night, President Obama Announces New Private-Sector Commitments To Get Students Excited About Science and Space Text: White House Astronomy Night Activities and Exhibits October 20 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest October 21 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Text of a National Economic Council and Office of Science and Technology Policy report: A Strategy for American Innovation Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Public and Private Sector Efforts To Address Prescription Drug Abuse and Heroin Use Fact sheet: The White House Releases New Strategy for American Innovation, Announces Areas of Opportunity From Self-Driving Cars to Smart Cities October 22 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3116 Text of a readout of the President's meeting with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan Fact sheet: U.S.-Pakistan Augmented Joint Action Plan for Trade and Investment Fact sheet: U.S.-Pakistan Clean Energy Partnership Fact sheet: The United States and Pakistan—Announcing New Partnership To Advance Girls Education Fact sheet: Obama Administration Joins With Public and Private Sector To Increase Access to Off-Grid Clean Energy and the Deployment of Innovative Technologies Globally Fact sheet: The United States and Pakistan—A Strong and Enduring Relationship October 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz October 26 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces New Efforts To Promote Sustainable and Climate-Smart Agriculture Fact sheet: U.S.-Indonesia Energy Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-Indonesia Climate Cooperation Fact sheet: U.S.-Indonesia Maritime Cooperation October 27 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz October 28 Transcript of a press gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Eric H. Schultz Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the U.S. delegation for the meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the election of a new Government in Nepal October 29 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3819 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the advance estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2015 Text of a readout of a roundtable discussion by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco and Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Adviser Avril D. Haines with human rights advocates and legal experts on counterterrorism transparency October 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest November 2 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1314 Statement by the Press Secretary on Montana's expansion of Medicaid under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Expatriate Affairs Nasser Judeh of Jordan Fact sheet: President Obama Announces New Actions To Promote Rehabilitation and Reintegration for the Formerly-Incarcerated November 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest November 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a White House report: Generation Indigenous: Increasing Support and Opportunity for Native Youth—2015 Update Report (embargoed until November 5) Fact sheet: The 7th Annual White House Tribal Nations Conference (embargoed until November 5) November 5 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Transcript of an on-the-record press call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, National Security Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa, and the Gulf Region Robert Malley, and U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel B. Shapiro to preview the visit of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 313, H.R. 322, H.R. 323, H.R. 324, H.R. 558, H.R. 623, H.R. 774, H.R. 1442, H.R. 1884, H.R. 3059, S. 1362, and S. 2162 Statement by the Press Secretary on H.R. 774, the Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing Enforcement Act of 2015 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with National Security Adviser Yossi Cohen of Israel November 6 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces "Healthy Communities Challenge" Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in October Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces Actions To Ensure That Nuclear Energy Remains a Vibrant Component of the United States' Clean Energy Strategy November 7 Statement by the Press Secretary on Ukrainian Holodomor Remembrance Day November 8 Statement by the Press Secretary: U.S. Government Announces Continued Commitment to Jordan's Education Sector November 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text: Wildland Fire Science and Technology Task Force Final Report (released by the National Science and Technology Council) Fact sheet: Administration and Fire Chiefs Around the Country Take Action To Reduce the Risk of Wildfires in the Wildland Urban Interface Exacerbated by Climate Change November 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of Germany Text of an op-ed by President Obama for Bloomberg View: A Trade Deal for Working Families Fact sheet: Obama Administration Announces More Than $375 Million in Support for Next-Generation High Schools Advance text of remarks by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough to the Jewish Federations of North America General Assembly November 11 Fact sheet: Honoring the Service of Our Nation's Veterans November 12 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice, and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on progress in Liberia and the lifting of economic sanctions Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attacks in Beirut, Lebanon November 13 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a White House Council on Women and Girls report: Advancing Equity for Women and Girls of Color Fact sheet: Advancing Equity for Women and Girls of Color November 16 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Names Recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom Statement by the Press Secretary on Senior Adviser to the President Brian C. Deese's travel to Ottawa, Canada Fact sheet: The 2015 G–20 Summit in Antalya, Turkey Fact sheet: The U.S. Commitment to the Global Health Security Agenda Fact sheet: Advancing the Rebalance to Asia and the Pacific Advance text of remarks by White House Chief of Staff Denis R. McDonough at the Department of State: Bridging the Education Gap for Refugee Children in Turkey November 17 Text of a readout of a conference call between White House officials and Governors to discuss U.S. refugee admissions policies and security screening measures Fact sheet: U.S. Building Maritime Capacity in Southeast Asia Fact sheet: Administration Announces 68 Cities, States, and Businesses Are Working Together To Increase Access to Solar for All Americans Fact sheet: White House and Department of Labor Launch $100 Million TechHire Grant Competition Including $50 Million for Young Americans November 19 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest, U.S. Trade Representative Michael B. Froman, Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes, and National Security Council Senior Director for Asian Affairs Daniel J. Kritenbrink Fact sheet: 23rd Annual APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting Fact sheet: Ahead of the Conference on Climate Change, More Than 200 Colleges and Universities Sign the American Campus Act on Climate Pledge To Demonstrate Support for Strong International Climate Action November 20 Transcript of a press gaggle by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 3996 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Bamako, Mali Fact sheet: The President's Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative November 21 Transcript of a weekly address by Vice President Joe Biden (dated November 20; embargoed until November 21) Fact sheet: U.S.-ASEAN Economic Engagement Fact sheet: U.S.-ASEAN Relations November 22 Statement by the Press Secretary on the death of former President Kim Young-sam of South Korea November 23 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the Executive order blocking property of persons contributing to the situation in Burundi Fact sheet: Burundi Executive Order November 24 Transcript of a press call by Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes and National Security Council Senior Director for Energy and Climate Change Paul Bodnar on the President's travel to Paris, France Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the second estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2015 November 25 Statement by the Press Secretary: Background on the Pardoning of the National Thanksgiving Turkey Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 208, H.R. 639, H.R. 2262, S. 799, S. 1356, and S. 2036 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the terrorist attack in Tunisia November 29 Fact sheet: Mission Innovation November 30 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest and Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications Benjamin J. Rhodes Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Announces Additional Commitments to the American Business Act on Climate Pledge (embargoed until December 1) Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the confirmation of Gayle E. Smith as Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development Text of a readout of the President's meeting with President Xi Jinping of China Fact sheet: Visa Waiver Program Enhancements December 1 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on elections in Burkina Faso Text of a White House Office of National AIDS Policy report: National HIV/AIDS Strategy Federal Action Plan Fact sheet: World AIDS Day 2015—The Time To Act Is Now December 2 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary on House of Representatives passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the death of former National Security Adviser Samuel R. "Sandy" Berger Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice's meeting with State Councilor Guo Shengkun of China Fact sheet: Congress Acts To Fix No Child Left Behind December 3 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest December 4 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 22 Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the employment situation in November Fact sheet: Health Educators Climate Commitment December 7 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest December 8 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a Council of Economic Advisers report: Long-Term Benefits of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Fact sheet: Council of Economic Advisers Releases Report Highlighting New Research on SNAP's Effectiveness and the Importance of Adequate Food Assistance December 9 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Text of a readout of the President's meeting with President Reuven Rivlin of Israel December 10 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary: White House Report: The Every Student Succeeds Act Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed S. 1177 White House report: Every Student Succeeds Act: A Progress Report on Elementary and Secondary Education Text of an Office of National Drug Control Policy press release: White House Announces Community Forums on Opioid Epidemic December 11 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2250, S. 599, S. 611, and S. 1170 December 12 Fact sheet: U.S. Leadership and the Historic Paris Agreement To Combat Climate Change December 14 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the Presidential election and Inauguration in Guinea December 15 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest White House report: Water Resource Challenges and Opportunities for Water Technology Innovation Text of a Bureau of Reclamation press release: WaterSMART Grant Funding Available for Water Conservation and Energy Efficiency Projects (dated December 14) Fact sheet: Administration Announces Public-Private Innovation Strategy To Build a Sustainable Water Future December 16 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 78 Fact sheet: One-Year Anniversary of the President's Policy of Engagement With Cuba December 17 Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Joshua R. Earnest December 18 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama Grants Commutations and Pardons Statement by the Press Secretary on the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.J. Res. 76, H.R. 2270, H.R. 2297, H.R. 2693, H.R. 2820, H.R. 3594, H.R. 3831, H.R. 4246, S. 614, S. 808, S. 1090, and S. 1461 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 2029 December 19 Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the constitutional referendum in Rwanda December 21 Statement by the Press Secretary on the deaths of U.S. servicemembers in Afghanistan December 22 Statement by the Press Secretary: President Obama To Honor Nation's Leading Scientists and Innovators Statement by Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason L. Furman on the third estimate of GDP for the third quarter of 2015 White House report: National Action Plan for Combating Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis Fact sheet: Obama Administration Releases National Action Plan for Combating Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis December 28 Statement by the Press Secretary announcing that the President signed H.R. 1321 and S. 2425 Statement by National Security Adviser Susan E. Rice on the South Korea-Japan agreement on "Comfort Women" December 30 Statement by the Press Secretary on the U.S.-ASEAN summit Statement by National Security Council Spokesperson Edward C. "Ned" Price on the arrest of journalists in Ethiopia 