Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Joint Statement by President Obama and President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico on United States-Mexico Climate Policy Cooperation March 27, 2015 On the occasion of Mexico submitting its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), President Barack Obama and President Enrique Peña Nieto reaffirm their commitment to addressing global climate change, one of the greatest threats facing humanity. The leaders underscore the importance of jointly addressing climate in their integrated economy. Smart action on climate change and developing clean energy can drive economic growth, and bring broad security, health, and development benefits to the region. The two countries will seize every opportunity to harmonize their efforts and policies towards their common climate goals. The two countries will launch a new high-level bilateral clean energy and climate policy task force to further deepen policy and regulatory coordination in specific areas including clean electricity, grid modernization, appliance standards, and energy efficiency, as well as promoting more fuel efficient automobile fleets in both countries, global and regional climate modeling, weather forecasting and early alerts system. The interagency task force will be chaired by Secretary Ernest Moniz and Secretary Juan José Guerra Abud, and hold its first meeting this spring. The task force will also look to advance its work program through the Clean Energy Ministerial that Mexico is hosting on May 27–28 and related initiatives. Both countries also commit to enhanced cooperation on air quality and climate policy, including harmonization and implementation of heavy-duty diesel and light duty emission standards, common programs to reduce reliance on HFCs, and technical cooperation on black carbon. NOTE: The joint statement referred to Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources Juan José Guerra Abud of Mexico. An original was not available for verification of the content of this joint statement. Categories: Joint Statements : Mexico, President Peña Nieto :: U.S.-Mexico climate policy cooperation. Names: Guerra Abud, Juan José; Moniz, Ernest J.; Peña Nieto, Enrique. Subjects: Energy, Department of : Secretary; Environment : Climate change; Mexico : Energy cooperation with U.S.; Mexico : President; Mexico : Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources; United Nations : Framework Convention on Climate Change. DCPD Number: DCPD201500207. 