Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Statement on Congressional Passage of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act December 4, 2015 This morning we learned that our businesses have added 13.7 million jobs over 69 months, extending the longest streak on record. Last night, Democrats and Republicans came together to pass a transportation bill that will help us build on America's progress by growing our economy and creating more good jobs for our middle class. This bill is not perfect, but it is a commonsense compromise and an important first step in the right direction. I look forward to signing this bill right away so that we can put Americans to work rebuilding our crumbling roads, bridges, and transit systems, reauthorize the Export-Import Bank that helps our companies compete around the world, and give local and State governments and employers the certainty they need to invest and hire for the long term. As we applaud the kind of bipartisan compromise that was reached last night, we should also recognize that we still have work to do. Congress should pass a bill like the GROW AMERICA Act I've proposed in the past, one that supports even more jobs and invests even more in our roads and highways than the bill passed last night so we can meet our country's infrastructure needs. Congress should pass a complete budget and avoid a Government shutdown. And Congress should approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership to open up new markets and support new jobs. If we take these kinds of commonsense steps, we can continue building an economy where every middle class family has the chance to get ahead. NOTE: The statement referred to H.R. 22. Categories: Statements by the President : Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, Congressional passage. Subjects: Business and industry : Global competitiveness; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Export-Import Bank, U.S; Legislation, proposed : Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act; Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP); Transportation : Infrastructure, national, improvement efforts. DCPD Number: DCPD201500868. 