Administration of Barack Obama, 2015 Nominations Submitted to the Senate December 18, 2015 The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service Officers. Submitted January 7 Alfred H. Bennett, of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Kenneth M. Hoyt, retired. Armando Omar Bonilla, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Edward J. Damich, term expired. Jeanne E. Davidson, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Donald C. Pogue, retired. Ann Donnelly, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Sandra L. Townes, retiring. Dale A. Drozd, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Anthony W. Ishii, retired. Nancy B. Firestone, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years (reappointment). Michael Greco, of New York, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Joseph R. Guccione, term expired. Thomas L. Halkowski, of Pennsylvania, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Lynn Jeanne Bush, term expired. LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Nicholas G. Garaufis, retired. George C. Hanks, Jr., of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Nancy Friedman Atlas, retired. Roseann A. Ketchmark, of Missouri, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Gary A. Fenner, retiring. Patricia M. McCarthy, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Emily Clark Hewitt, retired. Travis Randall McDonough, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Curtis L. Collier, retired. Ronald Lee Miller, of Kansas, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Kansas for the term of 4 years, vice Walter Robert Bradley, retired. Jose Rolando Olvera, Jr., of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Hilda G. Tagle, retired. Jill N. Parrish, of Utah, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Utah, vice Dee V. Benson, retired. Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Anthony J. Scirica, retired. Jeri Kaylene Somers, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice George W. Miller, retired. Kara Farnandez Stoll, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Randall R. Rader, retired. Ashton B. Carter, of Massachusetts, to be Secretary of Defense, vice Charles Timothy Hagel. Allan R. Landon, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 4 years from February 1, 2002, vice Sarah Bloom Raskin, resigned. Allan R. Landon, of Utah, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the term of 4 years from February 1, 2016 (reappointment). Loretta E. Lynch, of New York, to be Attorney General, vice Eric H. Holder, Jr. Submitted January 8 Walter A. Barrows, of Ohio, to be a member of the Railroad Retirement Board for a term expiring August 28, 2019 (reappointment). Allison Beck, of the District of Columbia, to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director, vice George H. Cohen, resigned. Michele Thoren Bond, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Consular Affairs), vice Janice L. Jacobs, resigned. Michael P. Botticelli, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice R. Gil Kerlikowske, resigned. Jonodev Osceola Chaudhuri, of Arizona, to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Tracie Stevens. Gilberto de Jesus, of Maryland, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant. Russell C. Deyo, of New Jersey, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Rafael Borras, resigned. Tho Dinh-Zarr, of Texas, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 31, 2018, vice Deborah Hersman, resigned. Romonia S. Dixon, of Arizona, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Matthew Francis McCabe, term expired. Todd A. Fisher, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2016, vice James A. Torrey, term expired. Paul A. Folmsbee, of Oklahoma, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali. Earl L. Gay, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, vice Christine M. Griffin. Jeffery S. Hall, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring October 13, 2018, vice Leland A. Strom, term expired. Jennifer Ann Haverkamp, of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Kerri-Ann Jones, resigned. Victoria Ann Hughes, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2016, vice James Palmer, term expired. Adri Davin Jayaratne, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Brian Vincent Kennedy. David Avren Jones, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2018 (reappointment). Mary Lucille Jordan, of Maryland, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2020 (reappointment). Michael D. Kennedy, of Georgia, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 2018 (reappointment). Marisa Lago, of New York, to be a Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Miriam E. Sapiro, resigned. Michelle K. Lee, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, vice David J. Kappos, resigned. Eric P. Liu, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring December 27, 2017, vice Layshae Ward, term expired. Rafael J. López, of California, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Bryan Hayes Samuels, resigned. Daniel Henry Marti, of Virginia, to be Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Executive Office of the President, vice Victoria Angelica Espinel, resigned. Therese W. McMillan, of California, to be Federal Transit Administrator, vice Peter M. Rogoff, resigned. Dava J. Newman, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Lori Garver, resigned. Deven J. Parekh, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2016, vice Katherine M. Gehl, resigned. Azita Raji, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Sweden. Mark Scarano, of New Hampshire, to be Federal Cochairperson of the Northern Border Regional Commission, vice Sandford Blitz, resigned. David S. Shapira, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2019, vice Dennis J. Toner, term expired. Carlos J. Torres, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps, vice Carolyn Hessler Radelet, resigned. Michael Young, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of 6 years expiring August 30, 2020 (reappointment). Patricia D. Cahill, of Missouri, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2020 (reappointment). Walter Hood, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2020, vice Barbara Ernst Prey, term expired. Kristen Marie Kulinowski, of New York, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice Beth J. Rosenberg, resigned. Diane Helen Rodriguez, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018, vice Joan Israelite, term expired. Kristen Joan Sarri, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Rhea S. Suh, resigned. Sally Quillian Yates, of Georgia, to be Deputy Attorney General, vice James Michael Cole, resigning. Submitted January 13 Mario Cordero, of California, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2019 (reappointment). Daniel R. Elliott, III, of Ohio, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2018 (reappointment). Jay Neal Lerner, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, vice Jon T. Rymer, resigned. Carlos A. Monje, Jr., of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Polly Trottenberg, resigned. Alissa M. Starzak, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Army, vice Brad Carson, resigned. Submitted January 16 Adewale Adeyemo, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Marisa Lago. Brian James Egan, of Maryland, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State, vice Harold Hongju Koh, resigned. Matthew T. McGuire, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of 2 years, vice Ian Hoddy Solomon, term expired. John E. Mendez, of California, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice Sharon Y. Bowen, resigned. John E. Mendez, of California, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2018 (reappointment). Submitted January 26 Sim Farar, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Sim Farar, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2018 (reappointment). William Joseph Hybl, of Colorado, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2015 (reappointment). William Joseph Hybl, of Colorado, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2018 (reappointment). Dallas P. Tonsager, of South Dakota, to be a member of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm Credit Administration, for a term expiring May 21, 2020, vice Jill Long Thompson, term expired. Submitted January 27 Stuart F. Delery, of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Derek Anthony West, resigned. Richard T. Julius, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2019, vice Raymond T. Wagner, Jr., term expired. Albert Stanley Meiburg, of Georgia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Robert Perciasepe, retired. Submitted January 29 Manson K. Brown, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan, resigned. William P. Doyle, of Pennsylvania, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2018 (reappointment). Gentry O. Smith, of North Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, vice Eric J. Boswell, resigned. Janet L. Yellen, of California, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 5 years, vice Ben S. Bernanke, term expired. Submitted February 4 Waverly D. Crenshaw, Jr., of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice William Joseph Haynes, Jr., retired. Eileen Maura Decker, of California, to be U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California for the term of 4 years, vice Andre Birotte, Jr., resigned. John W. Huber, of Utah, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Utah for the term of 4 years, vice David B. Barlow, resigned. Lawrence Joseph Vilardo, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of New York, vice Richard J. Arcara, retired. Submitted February 5 Cassandra Q. Butts, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas. Maria Cancian, of Wisconsin, to be Assistant Secretary for Family Support, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Carmen R. Nazario. Stafford Fitzgerald Haney, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica. Christopher A. Hart, of Colorado, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years, vice Deborah A.P. Hersman, resigned. Nancy Bikoff Pettit, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia. Jessie Hill Roberson, of Alabama, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2018 (reappointment). Submitted February 12 Charles C. Adams, Jr., of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland. David Michael Bennett, of North Carolina, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2018, vice Thurgood Marshall, Jr., term expired. Seth B. Carpenter, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Matthew S. Rutherford, resigned. Ann Elizabeth Dunkin, of California, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Malcolm D. Jackson, resigned. Brodi L. Fontenot, of Louisiana, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, vice Daniel M. Tangherlini, resigned. Sarah Elizabeth Mendelson, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Sarah Elizabeth Mendelson, of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Jane Toshiko Nishida, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Michelle DePass, resigned. Mary Catherine Phee, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Sudan. Deborah Willis, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Carol M. Swain, term expired. Submitted February 25 Mickey D. Barnett, of New Mexico, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2020 (reappointment). Katherine Simonds Dhanani, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Somalia. Amias Moore Gerety, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Cyrus Amir-Mokri, resigned. Sheila Gwaltney, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. Willie E. May, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology, vice Patrick Gallagher, resigned. Cono R. Namorato, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Kathryn Keneally, resigned. Monica C. Regalbuto, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management), vice Ines R. Triay, resigned. Anne Elizabeth Wall, of Illinois, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Alastair M. Fitzpayne, resigned. Submitted February 26 Mary Barzee Flores, of Florida, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice Robin S. Rosenbaum, elevated. Julien Xavier Neals, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Faith S. Hochberg, retiring. Andrew LaMont Eanes, of Kansas, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2019, vice Carolyn W. Colvin, term expired. Mileydi Guilarte, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Jan E. Boyer, resigned. Suzette M. Kimball, of West Virginia, to be Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, vice Marcia K. McNutt, resigned. Marcia Denise Occomy, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Director of the African Development Bank for a term of five years, vice Walter Crawford Jones, resigned. Submitted March 4 John Conger, of Maryland, to be a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, vice Michael J. McCord, resigned. Gregory T. Delawie, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Kosovo. Perry L. Holloway, of South Carolina, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. Peter Levine, of Maryland, to be Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, vice Elizabeth A. McGrath. Ericka M. Miller, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, vice Eduardo M. Ochoa. Sunil Sabharwal, of California, to be U.S. Alternate Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Douglas A. Rediker, resigned. Mark Sobel, of Virginia, to be U.S. Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of 2 years, vice Margrethe Lundsager, resigned. Michael Keith Yudin, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, vice Alexa E. Posny. Withdrawn March 4 Gilberto de Jesus, of Maryland, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2015. Submitted March 11 Edward L. Ayers, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice David Hertz, term expired. Stephen Crawford, of Maryland, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for the remainder of the term expiring December 8, 2015, vice Alan C. Kessler, resigned. Stephen Crawford, of Maryland, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2022 (reappointment). David Hale, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Kathryn K. Matthew, of South Carolina, to be Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services for a term of 4 years, vice Susan H. Hildreth. James C. Miller, III, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2017 (reappointment). Carol Fortine Ochoa, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, General Services Administration, vice Brian David Miller, resigned. Eric Martin Satz, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2018, vice Neil G. McBride, term expired. Vanessa Lorraine Allen Sutherland, of Virginia, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice Rafael Moure-Eraso, term expiring. Vanessa Lorraine Allen Sutherland, of Virginia, to be Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years, vice Rafael Moure-Eraso, term expiring. Submitted March 16 Ian C. Kelly, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Georgia. Patricia M. Loui-Schmicker, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. for a term expiring January 20, 2019 (reappointment). Submitted March 19 Francine Berman, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Gary D. Glenn, term expired. Richard Christman, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2017 (reappointment). LaVerne Horton Council, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Information and Technology), vice Roger W. Baker. Juan M. Garcia III, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jessica Lynn Wright, resigned. Douglas J. Kramer, of Kansas, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Marie Collins Johns, resigned. Shelly Colleen Lowe, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Jane M. Doggett, term expired. Andrew J. Read, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Marine Mammal Commission for a term expiring May 13, 2016, vice Daryl J. Boness, term expired. David J. Shulkin, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Robert A. Petzel, resigned. Stephen P. Welby, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Zachary J. Lemnios, resigned. Submitted March 25 Kathleen Ann Doherty, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus. Hans G. Klemm, of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Romania. Jeffrey Michael Prieto, of California, to be General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture, vice Ramona Emilia Romero, resigned. Lucy Tamlyn, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Benin. Submitted March 26 Thomas A. Burke, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Paul T. Anastas, resigned. Atul Keshap, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Maldives. Julieta Valls Noyes, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia. Franklin R. Parker, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Juan M. Garcia III. Alaina B. Teplitz, of Illinois, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal. John Michael Vazquez, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Joal A. Pisano, retired. Paula Xinis, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice Deborah K. Chasanow, retired. Submitted April 13 Gabriel Camarillo, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Daniel Ginsberg. Joyce Louise Connery, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2019, vice Peter Stanley Winokur, resigned. Jonathan Elkind, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs), vice David B. Sandalow, resigned. Joseph Bruce Hamilton, of Texas, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for the remainder of the term expiring October 18, 2016, vice Kenneth L. Mossman. William A. Heidt, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Cambodia. Dean A. Reuter, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring September 14, 2016, vice Julie Fisher Cummings, term expired. David Malcolm Robinson, of Connecticut, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization, vice Frederick D. Barton, resigned. David Malcolm Robinson, of Connecticut, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Conflict and Stabilization Operations), vice Frederick D. Barton, resigned. Shamina Singh, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2019, vice Alan D. Solomont, resigned. Submitted April 14 Glyn T. Davies, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Thailand. Carol Waller Pope, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2019 (reappointment). Submitted April 15 Wilhelmina Marie Wright, of Minnesota, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Minnesota, vice Michael J. Davis, retiring. Linda Struyk Millsaps, of North Carolina, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2018, vice Paul Jones, term expired. Thomas Edgar Rothman, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Submitted April 20 Jeffrey J. Hawkins, Jr., of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Central African Republic. Adam J. Szubin, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Crimes, vice David S. Cohen, resigned. Submitted April 28 Peter V. Neffenger, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice John S. Pistole, resigned. Submitted April 30 Patricia Nelson Limerick, of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Robert S. Martin, term expired. Gayle Smith, of Ohio, to be Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Rajiv J. Shah, resigned. Julie Helene Becker, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Herbert Blalock Dixon, Jr., retired. Todd Sunhwae Kim, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals for the term of 15 years, vice Kathryn A. Oberly, retired. William Ward Nooter, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice A. Franklin Burgess, retired. Robert A. Salerno, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Robert Isaac Richter, retired. Steven M. Wellner, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Kaye K. Christian, retired. Submitted May 4 Elizabeth Ann Copeland, of Texas, to be a judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice Diane L. Kroupa, retired. Submitted May 7 Karen Bollinger DeSalvo, of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Howard K. Koh, resigned. Jennifer Zimdahl Galt, of Colorado, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mongolia. David R. Gilmour, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Togolese Republic. James Desmond Melville, Jr., of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia. Peter F. Mulrean, of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti. Edwin Richard Nolan, Jr., of Massachusetts, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Suriname. Withdrawn May 7 Juan M. Garcia III, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jessica Lynn Wright, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on March 19, 2015. Submitted May 11 Ann Calvaresi Barr, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Donald A. Gambatesa, resigned. Julius Lloyd Horwich, of Illinois, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education, vice Gabriella Cecilia Gomez. Gregory Guy Nadeau, of Maine, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, vice Victor M. Mendez, resigned. Withdrawn May 11 Katherine Simonds Dhanani, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Somalia, which was sent to the Senate on February 25, 2015. Submitted May 14 Leslie E. Bains, of New York, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice William S. Jasien, term expired. Leslie E. Bains, of New York, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2018 (reappointment). Karl Boyd Brooks, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Craig E. Hooks, resigned. Laura Farnsworth Dogu, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Nicaragua. John L. Estrada, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Samuel D. Heins, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Norway. Juan Carlos Iturregui, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2020, vice Thomas Joseph Dodd, term expired. Thomas O. Melia, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Paige Eve Alexander, resigned. Submitted May 21 Michael C. McGowan, of Delaware, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Delaware for the term of 4 years, vice Joseph Anthony Papili, resigned. Eric Steven Miller, of Vermont, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Vermont for the term of 4 years, vice Tristram J. Coffin, resigned. Edward L. Stanton III, of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Samuel H. Mays, Jr., retiring. Akhil Reed Amar, of Connecticut, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Jamsheed K. Choksy, term expired. Stephen C. Hedger, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Elizabeth Lee King, resigned. W. Thomas Reeder, Jr., of Virginia, to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, vice Joshua Gotbaum, resigned. Jessica Rosenworcel, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 2015 (reappointment). Denise Turner Roth, of North Carolina, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Daniel M. Tangherlini, resigned. Luis A. Viada, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2018, vice John P. Salazar, term expired. Robert P. Zimmerman, of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2018, vice Manfredi Piccolomini, resigned. Submitted June 2 Marie Therese Dominguez, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation, vice Cynthia L. Quarterman, resigned. Sarah Elizabeth Feinberg, of West Virginia, to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, vice Joseph C. Szabo, resigned. Roberta S. Jacobson, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Mexican States. Submitted June 8 Scott Allen, of Maryland, to be U.S. Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice James LaGarde Hudson, resigned. Mary L. Kendall, of Minnesota, to be Inspector General, Department of the Interior, vice Earl E. Devaney, resigned. Withdrawn June 8 Ericka M. Miller, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, vice Eduardo M. Ochoa, which was sent to the Senate on March 4, 2015. Submitted June 10 Carolyn Patricia Alsup, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia. Paul Wayne Jones, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Poland. Daniel H. Rubinstein, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia. Submitted June 11 Brian R. Martinotti, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Stanley R. Chesler, retiring. Robert F. Rossiter, Jr., of Nebraska, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Nebraska, vice Joseph F. Bataillon, retired. Submitted June 16 John Morton, of Massachusetts, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Mimi E. Alemayehou. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 27, 2015, vice Johnnie Carson. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, an Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2021 (reappointment). Submitted June 22 Julie Furuta-Toy, of Wyoming, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. Submitted June 24 Kenneth J. Kopocis, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Peter Silva Silva, resigned. Janet Garvin McCabe, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Regina McCarthy, resigned. Submitted July 8 Mari Carmen Aponte, of the District of Columbia, to be Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador. Peter William Bodde, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Libya. Brad R. Carson, of Oklahoma, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Jessica Garfola Wright, resigned. Mark Philip Cohen, of Maryland, to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of 7 years expiring March 1, 2021, vice Anne Marie Wagner, term expired. Anthony G. Collins, of New York, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice William L. Wilson. Catherine Ebert-Gray, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Solomon Islands and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Vanuatu. Dennis B. Hankins, of Minnesota, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea. G. Kathleen Hill, of Colorado, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malta. Elisabeth I. Millard, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tajikistan. Submitted July 9 Darlene Michele Soltys, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Natalia Combs Greene, retired. Submitted July 13 Anthony Rosario Coscia, of New Jersey, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years (reappointment). Matthew Rhett Jeppson, of Florida, to be Director of the Mint for a term of 5 years, vice Edmund C. Moy, resigned. Derek Tai-Ching Kan, of California, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years, vice Jeffrey R. Moreland, term expired. John Maeda, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016 (new position). Andrew Miller Slavitt, of Minnesota, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Marilyn B. Tavenner, resigned. Mary Katherine Wakefield, of North Dakota, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice William V. Corr, resigned. Submitted July 16 Susan Coppedge Amato, of Georgia, to be Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking, with the rank of Ambassador at Large, vice Luis C. de Baca, resigned. Jessie Hill Roberson, of Alabama, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of 5 years expiring June 30, 2020, vice Jeffery Martin Baran, resigned. Marc Jonathan Sievers, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Sultanate of Oman. Kenneth Damian Ward, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as United States Representative to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Mark A. Young, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Audrey B. Collins, retired. Withdrawn July 16 Jessie Hill Roberson, of Alabama, to be a member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2018 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on February 5, 2015. Submitted July 21 Kathryn M. Dominguez, of Michigan, to be a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of 14 years from February 1, 2004, vice Jeremy C. Stein, resigned. Leonard Terry Strand, of South Dakota, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Iowa, vice Mark W. Bennett, retired. Submitted July 27 Richard Capel Howorth, of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2020 (reappointment). Harry K. Thomas, Jr., of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe. Victoria Marie Baecher Wassmer, of Illinois, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice Kristina M. Johnson, resigned. Submitted July 30 Darryl L. DePriest, of Illinois, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, resigned. Eric Drake Eberhard, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Bradley Udall, term expired. John D. Feeley, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama. Robert Porter Jackson, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ghana. Derek Tai-Ching Kan, of California, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years, vice Nancy A. Naples, term expired.  Victoria A. Lipnic, of Virginia, to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2020 (reappointment). Michael Herman Michaud, of Maine, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Keith Kelly. Beverly Angela Scott, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2019, vice Mark R. Rosekind, resigned. Elissa Slotkin, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Derek H. Chollet, resigned. John E. Sparks, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for the term of 15 years to expire on the date prescribed by law, vice James Edgar Baker, term expiring. Michael F. Suarez, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Dawn Ho Delbanco, term expired. Susan Paradise Baxter, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Sean J. McLaughlin, resigned. Inga S. Bernstein, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Massachusetts, vice Douglas P. Woodlock, retired. Gary Richard Brown, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Sandra J. Feuerstein, retired. Robert John Colville, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Gary L. Lancaster, deceased. Elizabeth J. Drake, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Richard K. Eaton, retired. Jennifer Choe Groves, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Gregory Wright Carman, retired. Marilyn Jean Horan, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Terrence F. McVerry, retired. Gary Stephen Katzmann, of Massachusetts, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, vice Jane A. Restani, retired. Dax Eric López, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice Julie E. Carnes, elevated. John Milton Younge, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Mary A. McLaughlin, retired. Withdrawn July 30 Earl L. Gay, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, vice Christine M. Griffin, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2015. Derek Tai-Ching Kan, of California, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of 5 years, vice Jeffrey R. Moreland, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on July 13, 2015. Submitted August 5 Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Richard Otto Buckius, of California, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation, vice Cora B. Marrett, resigned. Thomas F. Scott Darling, III, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, vice Anne S. Ferro, resigned. Linda I. Etim, of Wisconsin, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Earl W. Gast, resigned. Laura S. H. Holgate, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador. Laura S.H. Holgate, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador. Marcel John Lettre, II, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, vice Michael Vickers, resigned. Patrick Joseph Murphy, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Brad R. Carson. Cherry Ann Murray, of Kansas, to be Director of the Office of Science, Department of Energy, vice William F. Brinkman. Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of 4 years (reappointment). Submitted September 8 Clare E. Connors, of Hawaii, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Hawaii, vice Susan Oki Mollway, retiring. Stephanie A. Gallagher, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Maryland, vice William D. Quarles, Jr., retiring. Edward L. Gilmore, of Illinois, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Illinois for the term of 4 years, vice Darryl Keith McPherson, term expired. Mary S. McElroy, of Rhode Island, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Rhode Island, vice Mary M. Lisi, retiring. Submitted September 9 Richard Franklin Boulware II, of Nevada, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2019, vice Ketanji Brown Jackson, term expired. Charles R. Breyer, of California, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2021 (reappointment). Submitted September 10 Cassandra Q. Butts, of the District of Columbia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Barbara Lee, of California, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Christopher H. Smith, of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 70th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Submitted September 15 Rebecca Goodgame Ebinger, of Iowa, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice James E. Gritzner, retired. Submitted September 16 Robert McKinnon Califf, of South Carolina, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Margaret A. Hamburg, resigned. Eduardo Castell, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2019, vice Javaid Anwar, term expired. Steven H. Cohen, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2019 (reappointment). John W. Leslie, Jr., of Connecticut, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2019 (reappointment). Deborah R. Malac, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uganda. Vicki Miles-LaGrange, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2015, vice Roger L. Hunt, term expired. Vicki Miles-LaGrange, of Oklahoma, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2021 (reappointment). Catherine Ann Novelli, of Virginia, to be U.S. Alternate Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, vice Robert D. Hormats, resigned. Lisa J. Peterson, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland. H. Dean Pittman, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mozambique. Linda A. Puchala, of Maryland, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2018 (reappointment). Eric Seth Rubin, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bulgaria. Kyle R. Scott, of Arizona, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Serbia. Submitted September 21 Ricardo A. Aguilera, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Lisa S. Disbrow. Janine Anne Davidson, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Robert O. Work, resigned. Lisa S. Disbrow, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Eric K. Fanning, resigned. Eric K. Fanning, of the District of Columbia, to be Secretary of the Army, vice John M. McHugh. Shoshana Miriam Lew, of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Transportation, vice Sylvia I. Garcia, resigned. Jennifer M. O'Connor, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Defense, vice Stephen Woolman Preston, resigned. Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of career Ambassador, to be an Under Secretary of State (Political Affairs), vice Wendy Ruth Sherman. Submitted October 5 Todd C. Chapman, of Texas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador. Steven Michael Haro, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Margaret Louise Cummisky, resigned. John Francis Kotek, of Idaho, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy), vice Peter Bruce Lyons, resigned. Carolyn N. Lerner, of Maryland, to be Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel, for the term of 5 years (reappointment). Matthew John Matthews, of Oregon, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Senior Official for the Asia-Pacific Economic Corporation (APEC) Forum. Michael Joseph Missal, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice George J. Opfer, resigned. Withdrawn October 5 Beverly Angela Scott, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2019, vice Mark R. Rosekind, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 30, 2015. Submitted October 8 Dana J. Boente, of Virginia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia for the term of 4 years, vice Neil H. MacBride, resigned. Robert Lloyd Capers, of New York, to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Loretta E. Lynch, resigned. John P. Fishwick, Jr., of Virginia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia for the term of 4 years, vice Timothy J. Heaphy, resigned. Channing D. Phillips, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia for the term of 4 years, vice Ronald C. Machen, Jr., resigned. Emily Gray Rice, of New Hampshire, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of New Hampshire for the term of 4 years, vice John P. Kacavas, resigned. Randolph J. Seiler, of South Dakota, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of South Dakota for the term of 4 years, vice Brendan V. Johnson, resigned. Amos J. Hochstein, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Energy Resources), vice John Stern Wolf. David McKean, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg. Submitted October 21 Linda I. Etim, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2021, vice Mimi E. Alemayehou, term expired. Lisa M. Fairfax, of Maryland, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2020, vice Luis Aguilar, term expired. Jean Elizabeth Manes, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador. Scot Alan Marciel, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Union of Burma. Hester Maria Peirce, of Ohio, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 5, 2016, vice Daniel M. Gallagher, Jr., resigned. Linda Swartz Taglialatela, of New York, a career member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federation of St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Submitted November 9 Robert Annan Riley III, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federated States of Micronesia. Karen Bevard Stewart, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Vik Edwin Stoll, of Missouri, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years, vice James S. Halpern, retired. Withdrawn November 9 Kenneth J. Kopocis, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Peter Silva Silva, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on June 24, 2015. Submitted November 10 Beth F. Cobert, of California, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management for a term of 4 years, vice Katherine Archuleta, resigned. Submitted November 16 Hester Maria Peirce, of Ohio, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2021 (reappointment). Submitted November 19 Phillip H. Cullom, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Sharon E. Burke, resigned. Swati A. Dandekar, of Iowa, to be U.S. Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Robert M. Orr, resigning. Harry R. Hoglander, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2017 (reappointment). Daniel B. Maffei, of New York, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2017, vice Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., resigned. Georgette Mosbacher, of New York, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2018, vice Lezlee J. Westine, term expired. Patrick Pizzella, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of 5 years expiring July 1, 2020 (reappointment). Submitted November 30 Steven Nathan Berk, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Harold L. Cushenberry, Jr., retiring. Elizabeth Carroll Wingo, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Ann O'Regan Keary, resigned. Submitted December 7 Marcela Escobari, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Mark Feierstein, resigned. Charlotte P. Kessler, of Ohio, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2018 (reappointment). Esperanza Emily Spalding, of Oregon, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2020, vice Lee Greenwood, term expired. Submitted December 14 Alan J. Kreczko, of Connecticut, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2019, vice Paul Cherecwich, Jr., resigned. Andrew Mayock, of Illinois, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Beth F. Cobert. Edith Ramirez, of California, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of 7 years from September 26, 2015 (reappointment). James R. White, of Maryland, to be a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2020, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired. Submitted December 16 Paul Lewis Abrams, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Dean D. Pregerson, retired. Suzanne Mitchell, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice David L. Russell, retired. Scott L. Palk, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Stephen P. Friot, retired. Ronald G. Russell, of Utah, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Utah, vice Brian Theadore Stewart, retired. Submitted December 18 Dain Borges, of Puerto Rico, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Marvin Krislov, term expired. Thavolia Glymph, of North Carolina, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Rolena Klahn Adorno, term expired. Morton H. Halperin, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 2 years (reappointment). Michael O. Johanns, of Nebraska, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation for a term of 3 years, vice Lorne W. Craner, term expired. Adam H. Sterling, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Slovak Republic. Deborah Wong, of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Adele Logan Alexander, term expired. Withdrawn December 18 Adewale Adeyemo, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Marisa Logo, which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2015. Names: Abrams, Paul L.; Adams, Charles C., Jr.; Adeyemo, Adewale; Aguilera, Ricardo A.; Allen, Scott; Alsup, Carolyn P.; Amar, Akhil R.; Amato, Susan Coppedge; Aponte, Mari C.; Ayers, Edward L.; Bains, Leslie E.; Barnett, Mickey D.; Barr, Ann Calvaresi; Barrows, Walter A.; Baxter, Susan Paradise; Beck, Allison; Becker, Julie H.; Bennett, Alfred H.; Bennett, David M.; Berk, Steven N.; Berman, Francine; Bernstein, Inga S.; Blahous, Charles P., III; Bodde, Peter W.; Boente, Dana J.; Bond, Michele Thoren; Bonilla, Armando O.; Borges, Dain; Botticelli, Michael P.; Boulware, Richard F., II; Breyer, Charles R.; Brooks, Karl B.; Brown, Gary R.; Brown, Manson, K.; Buckius, Richard O.; Burke, Thomas A.; Butts, Cassandra Q.; Cahill, Patricia D.; Califf, Robert M.; Camarillo, Gabriel; Cancian, Maria; Capers, Robert L.; Carpenter, Seth B.; Carson, Brad R.; Carter, Ashton B.; Castell, Eduardo; Chapman, Todd C.; Chaudhuri, Jonodev Osceola; Christman, Richard; Cobert, Beth F.; Cohen, Mark P.; Cohen, Steven H.; Collins, Anthony G.; Colville, Robert J.; Conger, John; Connery, Joyce L.; Connors, Clare E.; Copeland, Elizabeth A.; Cordero, Mario; Coscia, Anthony R.; Council, LaVerne Horton; Crawford, Stephen; Crenshaw, Waverly D., Jr.; Cullom, Phillip H.; Dandekar, Swati A.; Darling, T.F. Scott, III; Davidson, Janine A.; Davidson, Jeanne E.; Davies, Glyn T.; de Jesus, Gilberto; DeArcy Hall, LaShann Moutique; Decker, Eileen M.; Delawie, Gregory T.; Delery, Stuart F.; DePriest, Darryl L.; DeSalvo, Karen Bollinger; Deyo, Russell C.; Dhanani, Katherine Simonds; Dinh-Zarr, Tho; Disbrow, Lisa S.; Dixon, Romonia S.; Dogu, Laura Farnsworth; Doherty, Kathleen A.; Dominguez, Marie T.; Dominquez, Kathryn M.; Donnelly, Ann; Doyle, William P.; Drake, Elizabeth J.; Drozd, Dale A.; Dunkin, Ann E.; Eanes, Andrew L.; Eberhard, Eric D.; Ebert-Gray, Catherine; Ebinger, Rebecca Goodgame; Egan, Brian J.; Elkind, Jonathan; Elliott, Daniel R., III; Escobari, Marcela; Estrada, John L.; Etim, Linda I.; Fairfax, Lisa M.; Fanning, Eric K.; Farar, Sim; Feeley, John D.; Feinberg, Sarah E.; Firestone, Nancy B.; Fisher, Todd A.; Fishwick, John P., Jr.; Flores, Mary Barzee; Folmsbee, Paul A.; Fontenot, Brodi L.; Furuta-Toy, Julie; Gallagher, Stephanie A.; Galt, Jennifer Zimdahl; Garcia, Juan M., III; Gay, Earl L.; Gerety, Amias Moore; Gilmore, Edward L.; Gilmour, David R.; Glymph, Thavolia; Greco, Michael; Groves, Jennifer Choe; Guilarte, Mileydi; Gwaltney, Sheila; Halkowski, Thomas L.; Hall, Jeffery S.; Halperin, Morton H.; Hamilton, Joseph B.; Haney, Stafford F.; Hankins, Dennis B.; Hanks, George C., Jr.; Haro, Steven M.; Hart, Christopher A.; Haverkamp, Jennifer A.; Hawkins, Jeffrey J., Jr.; Hedger, Stephen C.; Heidt, William A.; Heins, Samuel D.; Hill, G. Kathleen; Hochstein, Amos J.; Hoglander, Harry R.; Holgate, Laura S.H.; Holloway, Perry L.; Hood, Walter; Horan, Marilyn J.; Horwich, Julius L.; Howorth, Richard C.; Huber, John W.; Hughes, Victoria A.; Hybl, William J.; Iturregui, Juan C.; Jackson, Robert P.; Jacobson, Roberta S.; Jayaratne, Adri Davin; Jeppson, Matthew R.; Johanns, Michael O.; Jones, David A.; Jones, Paul W.; Jordan, Mary L.; Julius, Richard T.; Kan, Derek Tai-Ching; Katzmann, Gary S.; Kelly, Ian C.; Kendall, Mary L.; Kennedy, Michael D.; Keshap, Atul; Kessler, Charlotte P.; Ketchmark, Roseann A.; Kim, Todd S.; Kimball, Suzette M.; Klemm, Hans G.; Kopocis, Kenneth J.; Kotek, John F.; Kramer, Douglas J.; Kreczko. Alan J.; Kulinowski, Kristen M.; Lago, Marisa; Landon, Allan R.; Lee, Barbara J.; Lee, Michelle K.; Lerner, Carolyn N.; Lerner, Jay N.; Leslie, John W., Jr.; Lettre, Marcel J., II; Levine, Peter; Lew, Shoshana M.; Limerick, Patricia Nelson; Lipnic, Victoria A.; Liu, Eric P.; López , Rafael J.; López, Dax E.; Loui-Schmicker, Patricia M.; Lowe, Shelly C.; Lynch, Loretta E.; Maeda, John; Maffei, Daniel B.; Malac, Deborah R.; Manes, Jean E.; Marciel, Scot A.; Marti, Daniel H.; Martinotti, Brian R.; Matthew, Kathryn K.; Matthews, Matthew J.; May, Willie E.; Mayock, Andrew; McCabe, Janet Garvin; McCarthy, Patricia M.; McDonough, Travis R.; McElroy, Mary S.; McGowan, Michael C.; McGuire, Matthew T.; McKean, David; McMillan, Therese W.; Meiburg, Albert S.; Melia, Thomas O.; Melville, James D., Jr.; Mendelson, Sarah E.; Mendez, John E.; Michaud, Michael H.; Miles-LaGrange, Vicki; Millard, Elisabeth I.; Miller, Eric S.; Miller, Ericka M.; Miller, James C., III; Miller, Ronald L.; Millsaps, Linda Struyk; Missal, Michael J.; Mitchell, Suzanne; Monje, Carlos A., Jr.; Morton, John E.; Mosbacher, Georgette; Mulrean, Peter F.; Murphy, Patrick J.; Murray, Cherry A.; Nadeau, Gregory G.; Namorato, Cono R.; Neals, Julien X.; Newman, Dava J.; Nishida, Jane Toshiko; Nolan, Edwin R., Jr.; Nooter, William W.; Novelli, Catherine A.; Noyes, Julieta Valls; Occomy, Marcia D.; Ochoa, Carol Fortine; O'Connor, Jennifer M.; Olvera, Jose R., Jr.; Palk, Scott L.; Parekh, Deven J.; Parker, Franklin R.; Parrish, Jill N.; Peirce, Hester M.; Peterson, Lisa J.; Pettit, Nancy Bikoff; Phee, Mary C.; Phillips, Channing D.; Pittman, H. Dean; Pizzella, Patrick; Pope, Carol Waller; Prieto, Jeffrey M.; Puchala, Linda A.; Raji, Azita; Ramirez, Edith; Read, Andrew J.; Reeder, W. Thomas, Jr.; Regalbuto, Monica C.; Reischauer, Robert D.; Restrepo, Luis F.; Reuter, Dean A.; Rice, Emily Gray; Riley, Robert A., III; Roberson, Jessie Hill; Robinson, David M.; Rodriquez, Diane H.; Rosenworcel, Jessica; Rossiter, Robert F., Jr.; Roth, Denise Turner; Rothman, Thomas E.; Rubin, Eric S.; Rubinstein, Daniel H.; Russell, Ronald G.; Sabharwal, Sunil; Salerno, Robert A.; Sarri, Kristen J.; Satz, Eric M.; Scarano, Mark; Scott, Beverly A.; Scott, Kyle R.; Seiler, Randolph J.; Shannon, Thomas A., Jr.; Shapira, David S.; Shulkin, David J.; Sievers, Marc J.; Singh, Shamina; Slavitt, Andrew M.; Slotkin, Elissa; Smith, Christopher H.; Smith, Gayle E.; Smith, Gentry O.; Sobel, Mark; Soltys, Darlene M.; Somers, Jeri K.; Spalding, Esperanza E.; Sparks, John E.; Stanton, Edward L., III; Starzak, Alissa M.; Sterling, Adam H.; Stewart, Karen Bevard; Stoll, Kara Farnandez; Stoll, Vik E.; Strand, Leonard T.; Suarez, Michael F.; Sutherland, Vanessa L. Allen; Szubin, Adam J.; Taglialatela, Linda Swartz; Tamlyn, Lucy; Teplitz, Alaina B.; Thomas, Harry K., Jr.; Thomas-Greenfield, Linda; Tonsager, Dallas P.; Torres, Carlos J.; Vazquez, John M.; Viada, Luis A.; Vilardo, Lawrence J.; Wakefield, Mary K.; Wall, Anne E.; Ward, Kenneth D.; Wassmer, Victoria M. Baecher; Welby, Stephen P.; Wellner, Steven M.; White, James R.; Willis, Deborah; Wingo, Elizabeth Carroll; Wong, Deborah; Wright, Wilhelmina M.; Xinis, Paula; Yates, Sally Quillian; Yellen, Janet L.; Young, Mark A.; Young, Michael; Younge, John M.; Yudin, Michael K.; Zimmerman, Robert P. 